If pal talks at all about cutting rates,
it's going to be sort of incremental
steps ahead.
>> He will probably put a lot of focus on
the importance of preserving price
stability.
>> Very much unlike last year when Powell
made it clear that a cut was coming.
He's going to keep his options open.
>> There is a decent economic argument.
This isn't really about political
interference at all. P will be cautious.
J Pal in terms of his legacy is looking
at what happens to his mandate.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Heading
into the weekend, following 5 days with
no gains, investors looking ahead to Fed
Chair JPL's big speech as a divided
committee is getting together in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. Political pressure
continues to build before the Fed's
September meeting. The White House wants
rate cuts,
>> but no one on the Fed, at least those
we've heard from in the past week, is
ready to solidify those cuts. John, we
heard from Hammock saying that she
doesn't see the case for a cut given the
current data. Schmid, we don't have
definite data to be moving policy rates
right now. Goulsby, he wants to see
services inflation come down. More and
more we hear from, it sounds like those
two denters are still just that, the
outliers.
>> Isn't that amazing, Danny? I've noticed
the same thing in the last 24 hours. It
struck me too. Post payrolls, things
have changed so much for investors. Post
payrolls, things appear to have changed
very little for Fed officials.
>> And it seems like maybe they've changed
very little for Powell, too. We got a
sneak peek from a Nick Timrose story in
the Wall Street Journal of the framework
he plans to to show. It's very
technical, but the takeaway I had from
it was they want to be more flexible on
employment and more rigid on inflation.
the net. Some of that seems to be more
hawkish, but is this a market that's
ready for a very marginally more
hawkish? Powell,
>> we've seen it on repeat from the
Southside over the past few weeks.
Chairman Pal is not going to lock it in.
He's not going to commit to a rate cut
in September. We're putting a lot of
weight on the next two big prints for
economic data in this country, CPI and
payrolls.
>> And I think if Pal wants to sound more
hawkish, he could do just that, right?
He could say, "We are data dependent. We
have those two pieces of key data coming
in and we're not pre-committing to
anything. The issue with that, John, is
if that is interpreted very hawkish, you
get a sell-off in this market and stocks
in the front end. What's the reaction
from the White House?
>> Well, let's talk about the reaction from
the longer end of the curve as well. I
want to talk about things globally, not
just states side. This is worldwide.
30-year bond yields in America getting
closer and closer to 5% upper basis
point this morning, 493. In Japan,
30-year yields, record highs. in the UK
earlier this week the highest since 1998
just starting to bleed that leakage at
the long end of the curve continues
>> and I think it's important to note that
we will be hearing from UEA and other
central bankers at Jackson Hole so while
Powell is the most important it'll be
interesting to hear what they say too
and it presents this problem even if you
want to cut to unlock the housing market
for example how do you do that when
longer end yields continue to creep
higher and it is a global problem of
fiscal positions being unsustainable and
growing debts We've got a lot to get
through this morning. It's 4 hours away.
Chairman Pal in Jackson Hole. Equity
futures into that positive by 210 of 1%
on the S&P. Coming up this hour, Marvin
Low of State Street ahead of Chair Pal's
remarks. Alex Norris of the Ko Institute
as Nvidia looks the whole H20 chip
production and Suchita Kadali of
Forester following Walmart's profit
miss. We begin this hour with a divided
Fed coming together in Jackson Hole.
>> I think they're modestly restrictive. I
think we're on a good path.
>> I'm just open to the possibilities. Now,
what that means though is that
precisions and forecasts are going to be
very hard.
>> Once the labor market stumbles, it falls
and it falls quickly and it falls hard.
I think we'll likely need to adjust the
policy rate sometime in the coming
months. It looks like a market that a
healthy labor market that's still well
in balance, but with some, you know,
disappointing signs.
>> Feels to me like it's a live meeting.
>> So, here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Marvin Low of State Street
writing the following. We are finally
here and the initial enthusiasm that Pal
was going to signal imminent rate cuts
in September has tempered. Marvin joins
us now for more. Marvin, welcome to the
program, sir. What can we expect a
little bit later this morning?
>> You know, I think um the the chair is
going to be ready to acknowledge that um
they're about to talk about cuts. Um you
know, it probably won't be more than
that. Um, if we kind of look at where
their expectations have been all year,
they were they were saying that two cuts
were appropriate. You know, really
starting to talk about it in the fall is
is where we are at this point. And we're
not going to get much more than that in
terms of specificity um with regard to
September being something that they're
going to make um uh the start of the
cutting cycle. They're just not there
yet.
>> Marvin, there's this really odd
disconnect that Danny and I have been
talking about over the past few days.
Most people expect a rate cut in
September. very few expect him to lock
it in later on this morning. So Marvin,
just how high is the bar for the
chairman to surprise hawkishly this
morning?
>> I think it's pretty high. Um, you know,
remember Jonathan, at one point this
year we were saying they were going to
cut in July. So the markets are always
inclined to to hopefully get those rate
cuts because they really do uh support a
lot of other parts of the markets,
particularly with valuations where they
are. Um but ultimately, you know, the
way we've been looking at it for a while
is that the data is not there and the
uncertainty around uh trade and its
impact on prices is still making its way
through the system. And we've heard um a
lot of the Fed remain consistent um in
that type of approach.
>> It's remarkable though that Marvin, you
can have a market that's still pricing
in as high of odds as it is for a cut
despite the Fed speak, despite PMIs
yesterday, the highest since December of
2014. And then you also 2024 rather. And
then you also have the commentary there
saying that what they saw in the PMI
data would be suggestive of a hike, not
a cut. Marvin, why is this market so
stubborn to price out some of the cuts
it has?
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not as if it's not as
if it's not as if the data is
overwhelmingly strong. It's not as if
we've got um an acrosstheboard
reaceleration that we have to be
concerned with. Um you know, certainly
the employment data is important. I
don't want to discount it but it was one
print and you know really the focus of
the labor market as one of the you know
the key topics for this Jackson Hole
shows that there are potentially changes
that are um concerning the Fed with
regard to the labor market given that
the economy is still holding out still
holding in there if you will and and it
does feel as if the balance of risk is
pretty balanced at this point um waiting
to see if those concerns um you know
continue to dog the economy is an
appropriate approach. approach. Um, in
in terms of the pricing, we we really
have gone from talking about the
potential of 50 basis points a little
over a week ago to one where we're
getting to even odds for September,
which is kind of where I think we should
go into this meeting.
>> Does that mean that this market maybe is
less susceptible or is it a fragile
market heading into today's speech with
five straight days of losses and just
low volumes of August?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think valuations are are
key to this. I think August is key to
this. Um, you know, I think when we talk
about a Fed that can be patient, there's
also a positive economic story
associated with that to a certain
degree. If we were if we were really
seeing um, you know, jobs weakness, um,
it would signal something significantly
worse. So, um, our view and and the view
from a lot of the investors that we
talked to is that they're willing to
just wait and see how things evolve
because um, there is no imminent
economic cliff that a lot of people see.
>> Marvin, can we get to the story at the
long end of the yield curve? Worldwide,
30-year bond yields in America very
sticky, very close to 5%. If you look
abroad, Japanese yields on that
maturity, the highest on record in the
UK early this week, the highest since
1998.
Marvin, how disconnected, unanchored is
the story at the long end from the
debate at the front end.
>> And you know what? I think that that's
been really uh one of the most
interesting developments over the course
of uh over the course of this year. Um
you and I Jonathan and Danny, we've
talked about uh the shape of the curve a
lot over the last several quarters and
it really does show that there are
structural changes that are um occurring
with regard to either debt, demand for
debt and really kind of those inflation
dynamics which continues to really dog
the story. So they're all interrelated
from uh from um a fairly closely tied
perspective. But there's so much um
being put on the fact that lower short
yields will actually result in a much
cheaper funding environment. And I push
and I've been pushing back against that
for for quite some time.
>> So Marvin, breathe some life into that
debate right now. What are you saying
when you push back? What are you saying
to people?
>> You know what? Um uh I I I've said it
before, so so I guess I'm I'm not going
to um uh risk saying, you know, saying
something that's out of the blue, but a
10% um a 5% tenyear for the US is
something that in my mind is something
is is a scenario um that's not out of
the realm of possibility. And then if we
kind of pull that through the housing
market, if we pull that through global
rate curves, if we pull that through,
you know, overall steepness uh within
the curve with the Fed cutting, it
really does kind of change um an
economic environment that we haven't
seen for decades. Well, Marvin, just
given that we are in a debt scenario, a
deficit scenario that looks like wartime
footing, is this a market and really is
it an economy that will just need to be
run hot to have GDP move up high enough
to have that nominal GDP in order to
combat the rising deficits? Is that what
this market is pricing in and maybe what
the economy needs?
>> I mean, that's a great question, Danny,
for sure. because um you know part of
this um average inflation targeting uh
part of this um you know change in
framework also potentially has some
neutral rate implications to it and
we've been slowly creeping up on that
neutral rate. Um the economy itself is
is so large and you know somewhat mature
that we can't really run it that hot. Um
but it can certainly run hotter than
what we experienced before the pandemic.
And I think um with wages, with kind of
some of this inflation number that's
coming out, it's it's going to be a
natural outcome from it.
>> Well, ju just looking at what the market
is pricing for the end of 2026, if we
can even go that far. Fed fund futures
for December 2026, 3.1%. Inflation swaps
for December of 2026, 3.3%. Marvin,
those would seem to stand in opposition
of each other. And surely one of them
can't be right. So which is it?
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, so market pricing
is for this year, you know, we we we we
make so much about, you know, these
basis points change in September and
December and all all of a sudden we're
going into Jackson Hole. It looks
exactly what the Fed pricing is at this
point. 3% at the end uh I'm sorry, um
two more cuts before the end of this
year. But as we go into 2026, the
market's again much more aggressive
around that view. Um, you know, I think
that the market is is overly sanguin
about where this neutral rate is going
to settle and whether or not we're going
to be in a position to get to that
neutral rate by the end of next year.
Marvin, just before you go, I wonder if
we're all tracking the wrong thing. If
you track the politics, I think this
makes sense. The White House at the
moment wants lower rates. That's the
debate at the front end of the curve.
They might well be upset when they find
out that lower rates could lead to
higher rates at the long end. and not
given that loosening in the mortgage
market that they are ultimately looking
for for very political reasons because
ultimately that's a big debate in this
country right now politically
particularly here in this city and I
just wonder if we're all underestimating
the prospect of a new Fed share getting
aggressive with the balance sheet and
not just on interest rates.
>> Oh my goodness. Um, this is something
that I've been thinking about for quite
some time, particularly given kind of,
if you will, this Mara Lago report that
has been out there and the fact that
Treasury is really focusing more on the
short end. Um, I do think that if we're
worried about independence, if we're
worried about really um, policy not
necessarily um, set up to allow the
country to really perform with that dual
mandate in always kind of driving them.
It's one where balance sheet policy
becomes one of the discussions and if it
becomes politicized and it becomes
weaponized, it will ultimately still
result in an environment where investors
are not as concerned or or or are not as
comfortable um really with how the rates
market is is going to respond and you do
still wind up with a lot of pressure at
the long end of the curve.
>> Marvin Low, appreciate your time, sir,
as always. Marvin Low of State Street,
let's just play this out. a lot of
whatifs. Forgive me, but let's just play
this out. They drop interest rates and
let's say Marvin's right and yields rise
at the long end and the White House
starts to complain. What do you think
the White House is going to want from an
incoming Fed chair in that scenario?
>> Right. You get some form of yield curve
control. Maybe you get changes to the
balance sheet to your point, but it's
this question of independence. But if
you didn't have a White House and a Fed
that somewhat work together, we've seen
so many scenarios. I think the UK is
really relevant in this case where
they're working almost in opposition to
each other. So if you're cutting rates
and the idea is is to unlock the economy
and you're having the long end go up,
you kind of have to do something, right?
Because it's having the opposite effect
of what you want. So the cries might be
that's a threat to independence. But
what if the question becomes is this
necessary for the economy?
>> So well framed right now 30-year bond
yields are about 492.85 yields higher at
the long end worldwide over the past few
weeks. Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. It's not just
about the Federal Reserve with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira Arnand.
Hey, Yahira.
>> Exactly John. We are seeing Nvidia
shares falling nearly 1% in the
pre-market on reporting by the
information that the company has asked
suppliers to halt production of its
China focused AI chip, the H20. This
comes after our reporting that Beijing
urged local companies to avoid using the
chip. This raising questions about the
demand for the H20 which competes with
similar products from China to Huawei.
Meanwhile, 50% punitive tariffs on
imports from India will kick in as
planned next week. This as White House
trade adviser Peter Navaro says India is
cozying up to China and that its
purchasing of Russian oil is helping
fund Moscow's war in Ukraine. And Indian
officials are said to be perplexed by
the US criticism.
And Zoom shares are surging more than 5%
in the pre-market after it gave a
stronger than expected sales growth
outlook and raised its fiscal year
forecast. Its revenue boosted by its new
paid AI features and its expanded line
of software products. I'll have more on
that stock in your movers. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> looking forward to it. Yhara, thank you.
More from Yhierra later this hour. Up
next on the program, China's chip
crackdown.
>> China asked some questions about uh some
security backdoors in our chips. Uh we
have made very clear H20 has no security
back doors. That conversation up next
with Alex Nora of the Ko Institute live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
It's the main event later on this
morning, 10:00 a.m. Eastern time in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. speech from the
Federal Reserve chair J Pal. The market
waiting for that one. Heading into it,
five days without gains on the S&P 500.
Equity futures attempted to bounce
higher by 210 of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ by 0.2. Under Savannah this
morning, China's chip crackdown.
The Trump Trump administration has uh
approved licenses for us to export H20s
to China. Uh recently uh China asked
some questions about uh some security
backdoors in our chips. Uh we have made
very clear and put to rest that H20 has
no security back doors.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
information reporting Nvidia has
instructed component suppliers to stop
production related to the H20 chip. The
orders reportedly coming after Beijing
urged local companies to avoid using it.
>> Now, Trump's reversal, I have to say to
start, had really ignited a buying spree
of H20 chips. So, for one, I wonder how
many companies in China have front run
this or if what they've already bought
is being held up. But on a whole
picture, it does seem like it is a
serious effort from the Chinese
government to try to promote some of
their homegrown chipmakers and to try to
have that independence. But it's
interesting because Alibaba and the
other tech companies had been saying to
the government, we need those H20 chips.
That we're actually going to lose out on
tech supremacy if we don't have them.
Because without Nvidia's chips, we fall
behind.
>> I don't like where this is all going.
Can you imagine what's going to happen
to Intel if the government takes an
equity stake in them of say 10% and
they've got 30% of their revenue coming
out of China. What does everyone think's
going to happen to the Chinese revenue?
This is the push back Nvidia's getting
at the moment.
>> Okay. But the other option though is
that China's just bargaining for more
higher powered chips. There was a report
from Reuters that Nvidia was starting to
work on a different kind of chip that
they could sell into China that was
better than the H20s. So maybe in some
way this is actually China saying stop
the H20s. We want something better.
>> We're negotiating through some of the
biggest companies on the planet. Nvidia
right now negative by about 1%. Let's
have that conversation with Alex Nora of
the Ko Institute. Alex, intervention has
consequences. Does it have unintended
consequences?
>> Uh, it absolutely does. The long-term
problems and even the short-term
problems of the government trying to
take these equity stakes and some of the
most productive and innovative companies
in the world is is disastrous. And
investors and firms are going to look at
this and they're going to start to make
investment decisions based on what makes
politicians happy and on what favors
they think they can make rather than the
profitability of these investments which
will eventually undermine a lot of the
productivity gains that we get uh from
these firms. I mean, we saw this back in
the financial crisis where the
government took stakes and companies,
temporary stakes, big bailouts in
companies and auto companies and then
made investment decisions for them. This
was not good for the auto industry. It
wasn't good for the United States. And I
fear that the effect of doing this with
some of the most advanced uh chip makers
in the world will be even more
destructive.
>> Let's work through this, Alex. So, let's
say GFC was about distressed assets
connected to the employment of thousands
upon thousands of people in this
country. The government felt like it had
a role to play. Let's talk about this
one. It feels unique. Here's the
situation. The government doesn't
believe that the freehanded market is
going to allow them to build out
domestic foundry capacity and they need
to for national security purposes. What
is the free market solution to making
that happen?
Well, I think the major free market
solution for a lot of this is if the
government thinks that it needs to have
certain components in order to fight a
war at some point. Stockpiling is a good
way to do that. Relying on exports from
a lot of our allies is a good way to do
this. I mean, if that was really the
justification, the United States
government would not be putting tariffs
on other countries that are our allies.
We would be increasing trade flows with
these countries and away from the
potential adversaries. So the Trump
administration is trying to have every
side of every argument in this debate
over trade and chips and equity stakes
in these companies. But these arguments
are all contradicting each other uh
contradicting themselves. And as a
result, a lot of investors and a lot of
these companies, they don't know which
way to turn. They don't know what types
of investments to make and they don't
know what the administration or the next
administration is going to do on this.
It is not a stable environment. To that
point, Alex, often building up these
types of things take longer than four
years. It will take longer than this
presidential cycle. Is it your
estimation then that companies won't
commit? We've already gotten a lot of
investment promises from a variety of
tech companies. Do those get followed
through if there is this concern of what
happens after four years?
The history of industrial policy in the
US and handing out subsidies for firms
to do this is that oftentimes firms
upfront will say yes, I'll do this and
then they pull back their investments.
We saw this with Foxcon in places like
Wisconsin, other other uh states in the
Midwest. We've seen it with companies
throughout uh the the country basically
going back a long periods of time that
they will make a politically favorable
judgment to make the current politicians
look good and then they'll pull back
when they notice that they can't make
the economics work. They can't make the
investment profitable. Uh and ultimately
that's probably a better situation than
them investing tens of billions of
dollars in projects that won't
ultimately work. Listen, companies know
what they're doing. They understand the
rent seeeking environment that they're
in. They understand this administration
pretty well and they are just trying to
run it out without doing too much damage
to themselves uh to their investors and
to their uh to their share price.
>> They understand what the US is doing.
Alex, to what degree do companies
understand and are able to navigate what
China is doing with AMD, Nvidia? The
latest being that China seemingly
pushing back on allowing companies to
buy H20 chips. How does an Nvidia
navigate that?
I mean that that I mean that right there
is a um you know the trillion dollar
question. Um the Chinese government has
long been inscrable uh to a lot of
investors around the world. Uh the Trump
administration's decisions seem crazy to
a lot of them. So they're really stuck
between a rock and a hard place in terms
of the investments uh that they want to
make. But I mean if I it's just going to
be very very difficult for them to
navigate this. I we have a budding
geopolitical conflict between China and
the United States that a lot of people
try to compare it to the cold war but it
is radically different because there are
enormous and valuable trade flows uh
between these companies. Chinese uh
companies, Chinese firms, the Chinese
government has long demanded uh payments
of intellectual property for uh from
American companies to be able to operate
uh in their markets. I think we're going
to see a diversification where the
Chinese government is going to continue
to nickel and dime American firms and
demand bigger and bigger concessions
just like the US government is demanding
from American firms in the form of
equity stake. So basically the big loser
in all this geopolitical conflict is
going to be some of the most innovative
American companies in the world no
matter which government is doing the
pressure.
>> Alex, appreciate your time and your
take. Thank you sir. Alex Nora at the Ko
Institute. It's getting harder and
harder to have a foot in each market. In
China, in the US, in the president's
first term, it was Apple and Tim Cook.
In his second term, it's Nvidia and
Jensen Wang.
>> Jensen Wong had really appealed to the
president and tried to become almost a
politician like we've seen from others,
saying that we need to be selling into
China or else American tech is going to
miss out. It almost seems like that
conversation has been wellreceived
because they are allowing it to do them.
Maybe the other side of that coin wasn't
thought about what China's willingness
would be.
>> They're getting some push back. The
stock is down by about 1% in the
pre-market. Up next, we'll catch up with
Sushi Gadalia of Forester wrapping up a
massive week of retail earnings. Plus,
Yihara with your morning movers. Zoom
shares rallying by 5%.
[Music]
5-day losing streak on the S&P 500, the
longest since the start of the year.
Let's see if we can bounce up by a
quarter of 1% on the S&P, up by 210 on
the Nasdaq. Some outperformance on the
Russell. The small caps up by 0.5.
In the bond market, 2year, 10ear,
30-year bond yields, tension all over
the place between twos and 30s. I want
to talk about the tension at the front
end of the curve. We're looking for
ratecasts from the Federal Reserve.
378.92 yields just about unchanged this
morning, but the data in the past 24
hours was okay. Claims wasn't terrible.
PMIs were actually pretty decent. And
some people have got a sneaky feeling
that maybe the data and this economy
starts to pick up in the months to come.
>> Well, the data in the PMIs was so decent
that the commentary from the S&P said
that the kind of data coming in would be
more suggestive of a rate hike versus a
rate cut. and that prices were picking
up and they were starting to pass it
along to consumers. Maybe you take that
along with what we heard from Walmart
yesterday saying that for now they're
able to keep prices lower than
inflation, but it's picking up every
single week. And I think that's why
Powell's speech maybe he doesn't want to
commit to a cut.
>> Things are super finely balanced going
into September post Labor Day. We've got
some payrolls for you and then we've got
CPI September 17th that Fed meeting. 3
hours until the opening bell. Should we
get you some morning movers? Let's do
that. Joining us now, Jihara. Hey,
Yihara.
>> Hi, John. Yes, let's do that. We start
on Nvidia heading for a fourth straight
day of losses. Shares are down 1% this
time on a report by the information that
the company, as we've been talking about
all morning, has instructed suppliers to
stop production of its China focused AI
chip, the H20, as Beijing continues to
clamp down. But Wall Street is not
blinking. Analysts keep lifting their
price target ahead of the company's
earnings next week on Wednesday. We're
reporting that at least nine have lifted
their price target so far. Meanwhile, we
have workday shares also falling down 4%
as the HR software makers guidance
disappointed fueling concerns among the
analyst community that that AI could
kill off legacy software players like
Workday. It did acquire an AI focused
recruiting firm. This is its second AI
related acquisition this year, but that
has not been enough to assuage concerns
as we can see. But a company that is
seeing some AI fueled gains is Zoom.
Shares are up 5% after the video
conferencing company raised its fullear
revenue and profit outlook. Its analysts
say that the that the company's AI
features are actually helping other
businesses uh automate tasks. So even
after the post-pandemic slowdown,
customers are still relying on Zoom. And
on top of that, people are still working
from home. John,
>> it's true. Not us, but it's true. People
are working from home. Yhara, thank you.
Appreciate it. I'm not complaining. I
love it. Don't you love being in the
studio?
>> Yeah, I love being in the studio. Also,
I think Zoom is overused. We should be
calling each other or meeting in person.
I'm over
>> totally agree. I'm over it.
>> Totally agree. I hated using Zoom. Still
hate using Zoom.
>> Yeah.
>> Trying to avoid Zoom meetings all the
time.
>> Yeah. And it's like what background do
you use? Do you blur it out? What angles
your It's too much. I'm, you know,
obviously I like the setup where someone
else knows where the camera should be
for me. And I don't think
>> there you go. Perfect. It's your job but
not us. You do a great job of it by the
way, John. Thank you, sir. On a radar
this morning. Thank you. Divisions
growing within the Federal Reserve ahead
of Fed Chair J Pal's final speech from
Jackson Hole. The Fed facing a September
rate cut decision with officials
weighing inflation and labor market
risk. Amazing to me that we all said the
minutes were dated from the Federal
Reserve. They don't look so dated.
Listen to officials over the past 24
hours. I was going to say Hammock
doesn't see the case for a September
rate cut. Schmid saying we don't have
definitive data to be moving right now.
Goulsby saying the meeting is live
implying he wants to see where services
inflation comes in. But maybe the market
isn't moving until they hear from the
man himself and that's Jay Powell. But
considering he's been siding more on the
line of the hawks, why would he really
do anything except say we are data
dependent and then get into the weeds of
what the framework for monetary policy
will look like?
>> That speech coming at 10 a.m. Eastern
time. Just for the record, our directors
also called John. That wasn't me
speaking myself. All right, just to
clean that up.
>> Let's turn to Nvidia. Shares lower this
morning. The information reporting the
company has asked suppliers to stop
production related to the H20 chip. This
comes after Beijing urged local
companies to avoid using the hardware.
The stock this morning is down by about
1%. The earnings are next week and in
many ways the earnings is only going to
be a small piece of the bigger story.
The politics of all of this has become
so interesting over the past few weeks.
>> More interesting and more complicated.
How do you navigate something like this
where you appeal to the White House and
say our technology is important to
preserve? In order to preserve that, you
need China to be buying and not making
their own homegrown technology. And then
you get reports, for example, like
Howard Lutnik speaking about this idea
that they want to get China addicted to
US technology. Kind of a variation,
let's be honest, on what Huang said. But
then the Chinese hearing that and it
upsetting them. How do you play between
these two sides? It seems like Nvidia is
really stuck. Is it making new chips
that they can sell into China? Will the
US allow that? So many different things.
I don't even know how you would begin to
scratch the surface of that on a
earnings call next week.
>> Worth pointing out that the analyst
community is still super bullish and
constructive on this name. I think in
the past week, the team were putting the
numbers together. At least nine upgrades
the price targets on this stock over the
past week going into results next week.
>> Well, it won't surprise you at all that
Dan Eyes is still incredibly bullish. I
was just reading his note this morning
basically saying the politics of the
moment isn't the most important thing.
It's the fact we're going through an AI
revolution as he likes to say and Nvidia
is at the heart and center of it. Yes,
it is. But what happens if a Huawei can
also be at the center of it? What
happens if China becomes less reliant
with 15% of the revenue? That hurts with
a stock that's as richly priced as
Nvidia is.
>> Nvidia's had some shaky moments over the
last week or so. We're down by 1% so far
in pre-market trading. A final story
here. National mail services are pausing
parcel deliveries to the US as the
dimminimous exemption comes to an end
starting next week. Low value packages
mailed from other countries will be
subject to tariffs and compliance with
customs and border protection rules.
>> It just speaks to the messiness of
trying to figure out where we stand with
tariffs. I thought Finland's mail
service was interesting, saying that
customs need to be paid before we can be
shipping to the US, but we literally
have no idea how to pay those customs.
It kind of echoes with what happened
with gold a couple weeks back where
there was a lot of confusion. Is gold
being tariffs? So, a lot of refiners
just stopped shipping it to the US. So,
it's not just the cost of tariffs. It's
the cost of compliance and the confusion
and the clogging of supply chains as you
figure it out. And it especially gets
more important as we move into the
autumn and winter months when buying
really picks up heading into the
holidays.
>> We've introduced a lot of friction into
the system over the past few weeks and
it's going to take a number of months to
figure that out. Let's stay on trade and
talk about retail. Walmart shares
retracing earlier losses after the
company reported a miss on profit for
the first time in 3 years. Such Gadalia
Forester writing the next few weeks of
other retail sales numbers will be
telling. The street certainly is not
optimistic about the consumer given that
the stock declined even though revenue
growth was strong for this company.
Suchita joins us now for more. Suchita,
welcome to the program. Danny talked
about it. The commentary coming from
Walmart in the last 24 hours. tariff
costs are going up every single week.
What are the mitigation strategies that
they've introduced and others too that
they've implemented that are allowing
them not to pass that on to the end
consumer?
>> Well, I think that certainly some
consumers, particularly at the low end,
absolutely think that the price
increases are being passed on to them
and they've been seeing that um over the
last year to two years. But um but
overall I think that what has been
happening is that Walmart has tremendous
influence and uh purchasing power with
its suppliers. So it can definitely
force uh the suppliers and other
companies further downstream to absorb
some of that. Um so in a basket of goods
that may be $100 um you are going to see
probably 20 or more suppliers being able
to absorb different parts of that price
increase. and it's either not as visible
to Walmart or it's not going to be quite
as visible to consumers depending on
what the basket of goods is that you're
purchasing in the first place. Well,
>> Walmart is maybe unique in that manner,
Suterita, but just given how big of a
presence it is in retail, what does that
do to other retailers who maybe don't
have that benefit? What does it do to
other behemoths like Amazon? Is this a
race just to see who can keep up with
Walmart in keeping prices lower?
>> Right. Well, what we have seen um over
the last several years and this is a
story not just with Walmart but also
Amazon is that they've been gaining
share at the expense of most other
retail sectors. So, um that's absolutely
what happens in that environment. Um but
what we're also seeing now at an
individual retailer level is that there
is a little bit of a rebound with
certain sectors. We saw this in the
monthly retail sales numbers. the other
week where you're seeing rebound in
do-it-yourself and homeg goods. You're
seeing a little bit of a rebound in
apparel. Um, now these are all relative
because we had declines in those sectors
over the last several years. So, they're
just kind of catching up to where they
were. Um, but in the near term, they're
they're they're holding their own. And
it speaks to the fact that um in spite
of some of these um claims and these
worries that inflation is going to
really really hurt the consumer, we're
still seeing consumers um in the
aggregate purchasing.
>> So Truda, away from prices, as much as
you could possibly not think about those
with Walmart, they also had a lot of
commentary around their AI features,
different agents that they're unveiling
for different parts of the supply chain
and to consumers. This also comes off
the back of that report from MIT that
95% of companies using Generative AI are
having a zero return on investment. What
is the AI use case for Walmart? Are they
seeing a return on investment on the
types of AI that they're trying to
implement?
>> Well, the the truth is is that in the
business world now there is a bit of f
of a frenzy to embrace um generative AI,
agentic AI. There is a belief that um
these will transform businesses but at
the very least the hope is that they
will transform your stock um because you
will be perceived as a technology
forward company and hopefully you'll be
able to find um some sort of either
revenue gains or earnings um or cost
savings somewhere in the business. For
retail um the jury is still very much
out on where the benefits are. A lot of
the benefits of this so-called AI have
been machine learning algorithms that
have been embedded into software over
the last 20 years. Are we seeing things
that are tremendously new now? Not so
much. There are the chat bots. There are
um some AI agents, but those are really
either just new names for old live chat
or you know kind of essentially the chat
bots that we've had over the last
several decades or they will be variants
of uh some of the machine learning
algorithms that a lot of these companies
have have embedded into their systems
quite effectively over the last decade
but we just didn't call it AI. Not
everybody can afford to make these
investments, particularly at a time when
costs for them are going up. Suchita, is
this just a situation, which I think is
something Danny mentioned earlier this
week, where the big just keep on getting
bigger.
>> Um there there are um certainly
scenarios here like you see Walmart and
Amazon growing and and certainly taking
share. Um but at the very very small um
retail sector level, the the minnows in
the water, the companies that work with
Shopify or Big Commerce for instance, um
AI has absolutely empowered them to do
things like um create product
descriptions at scale or to be able to
create new imagery on their website um
or add videos or do things in a way that
makes them look more professional um
even in spite of the fact that they may
not have resources. So, um that is
absolutely an empowerment tool that AI
has provided. Um but it only goes so far
because a lot of those companies still
have to build brands and it's not easy
to build a brand. It's not easy um to
get production of physical goods at
scale. Um it's not good. It's not easy
to get awareness and uh and that is
something that Amazon and Walmart now
have because they are so ubiquitous in
the economy. It's not the case with
little Shopify merchants.
>> True. It's a good point. Sicharita,
appreciate your time as always. Thank
you. Sitita Gadali there of Forester. I
think Walmart yesterday an important
data point for this Federal Reserve as
they get together in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, one of the biggest retailers on
the planet, also in this country, making
the point that they're doing their best
not to pass on higher costs. This is a
different environment to the one that we
were in coming out of the pandemic. I
think a lot about a conversation I had
with a company that sold goods from
China to people like Home Depot to
Walmart in the US and they had said that
the big retailers completely cleaned out
their inventory that they have their own
storage and was brought there. If you're
a smaller company, to your point, you
can't now turn to them and get goods
that are pre-tariffed. They've been
completely cleaned out by the big
players. So Walmart is an important
signal for the Fed, but if anything,
they're doing so much better than
everyone else is and navigating the
prices. So you can't just use Walmart. A
lot of the small businesses, which also
make up a huge part of this economy, are
suffering more.
>> They're one extreme. They're the best
case outcome, I imagine, based on your
commentary, and I agree with you. That
stock this morning recovering just a
little bit after yesterday's losses.
Futures more broadly trying to bounce by
just 0.2% going into Chairman Pal later
on this morning. Let's keep an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Elon Musk tried to enlist Mark
Zuckerberg to help finance his
unsolicited bid to buy OpenAI this year.
That's according to a court filing from
the chat GPT maker. Neither Zuckerberg
or his company Meta took part in the
$97.4 billion bid. Meta declined to
comment and Bloomberg News reached out
to Musk, but has yet to hear back.
Meanwhile, Israel's top foreign policy
aid traveled to the United Arab Emirates
to hold talks with the country's
president. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the meeting is part of a push
for Israel to improve relations strained
by the war in Gaza. The UAE warned
earlier this month that Israel's
decision to seize Gaza City would lead
to quote catastrophic consequences.
And a change is coming to Jeffre. The
firm telling top bankers they must
collaborate to maximize their bonuses.
That's according to the Financial Times.
The change is designed to support the
bank's ambitions to work on larger
corporate transactions and compete with
bigger Wall Street firms. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
heading towards a live meeting
>> before April 2nd before we got some
uncertainties. it made sense for rates
to come down. In the interim, we've had
mixed messages. Feels to me like it's a
live meeting.
>> That conversation up next with the
former US Labor Department chief
economist Betsy Stevenson from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Big day coming up in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming. Equity futures at the moment
heading into that positive by 210 of 1%
on the S&P. On the NASDAQ up by 0.2 the
Federal Reserves resident hawk,
Cleveland Fed President Beth Hammock
with this to say yesterday. With the
information I have, if the meeting was
tomorrow, I would not see a case for
reducing interest rates. She wasn't
alone with that kind of commentary
yesterday.
>> She wasn't. You could brush it off and
say she's not a voter, but then you get
someone like Schmidt who is a voter
saying we don't have the definitive data
to be moving in the right in the policy
rate right now. Gossby saying it's a
live meeting. It was again and again we
heard from various speakers really
pushing back against the idea that
September is a done deal. Again, the two
dissenters, they seem like that
dissenters still. It's the calm before a
potential storm. I stress potential bond
yields totally unchanged. The 2-year
about 380 tends this morning 433 under
surveillance this morning heading
towards a live meeting
before April 2nd before we got some
uncertainties. I believed that we had
pretty stable full employment that
inflation's coming down to target and
then it made sense for rates to come
down. In the interim, we've had mixed
messages. We still have a fair bit of
information that we're going to get
before September. Feels to me like it's
a live meeting.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Tariffs in a tight labor market clouding
the Fed's direction as investors await
signals from Fed Chair Jay Powell in
Jackson Hole today. The former US Labor
Department chief economist Betsy
Stevenson writing in the New York Times
the following. The Fed is looking at job
numbers without a real understanding of
what our current steadystate job growth
should be. Betsy joins us now for more.
Betsy, thanks for giving us some time. I
want to give you some space just to
explain that. What's your understanding
of the current situation?
>> Yeah, thank you for um giving me a
chance to give the context because the
context is important there. Why do we
not really know what the steady state
should be? And the reason is that when
we're looking at those job numbers, what
we're trying to think about is how many
workers are employers trying to hire.
But on the other side of that is how
many workers are there available for
them to hire and what how much hiring
does it take to keep our employment
steady, right? So that we're at full
employment. What we have right now is a
big decline in immigration and that is
clouding these numbers because with
people exiting, that's labor supply
contracting. We definitely need fewer
jobs being added each month. But the
question is how many fewer? what's that
steady state rate of growth? Um, on the
flip side, you know, in in 2024,
uh, 2023, a lot of people were worried
that the economy was overheating because
they were adding so many jobs per month
and it felt like where could they be
getting these workers? Well, we were
seeing a resurgence of immigration as we
now know. um and that resurgence of
immigration was giving the labor supply
that employers needed to be able to keep
hiring at that very rapid clip. Well, to
that point, Betsy, the most recent
reporting from the Journal does suggest
that there will be a change from Jay
Powell when he speaks today about the
framework about not just inflation but
employment as well and how they view
this labor market. given what you're
talking about and really the clouds and
the unknowingness of how exactly this
labor market is forming, how should the
framework change? How should they be
approaching this labor market?
Uh well, I think what they need to be
right now is just incredibly data driven
and that's going to mean looking at lots
of sources of data because they're
trying to look at not just how many jobs
are added, what's the unemployment rate,
but you know what what is the pressure
in the labor market that could spark
inflation. And so that's going to mean
digging in and looking more granularly
at uh unemployment rates for different
groups of people. Um but remember, they
have a dual mandate. They do want to
keep employment at full employment, but
they've also got to try to get that
inflation back to their target of 2%.
You know, we had hit it and then it's
sort of bounced up a little bit. And we
might not think that inflation's it's
not out of control, but it's certainly
not where they want it to be. And it
looks like inflation might be about to
tick up even further. So, what they're
going to be looking at is what's
happening to inflation expectations. How
tough do they have to be um to keep that
inflationary pressure down? And then
they got to balance that with, you know,
is is this is this slowdown in the labor
market we're seeing? Is this driven by
employers just, you know, not having
enough uh oomph? Are we starting to see
a recession where we're going to have a
bunch of resources, which are pe workers
and people, but also capital equipment
that's just laying around and doing
nothing? That's what a recession is all
about. We don't want a recession, but we
also don't want to see us demanding more
than we can supply. Um, and particularly
with reducing our supply channels from
overseas, that means that they're going
to have to be a little bit careful to
try to make sure that those reductions
in supply don't lead to higher prices. I
think this is the toughest position the
Fed has basically uh, you know, ever
been in in my lifetime at least.
>> Well, Betsy, just describing you
describing the state of things, it seems
like labor market unknown, signals
unclear, but what is known is that
inflation is still with us. In fact,
it's higher than it was this time last
year at Jackson Hole. How can the Fed be
cutting that next month?
>> I I think that's a big question. I think
that's why you're hearing a lot from uh
members of the the board of governors or
and the, you know, the FOMC that, you
know, it's not clear that they should
cut. They're really really going to have
to be data dependent. What does that
mean? That means that they shouldn't
have made up their mind right now what
they're going to do in September.
They're there's data that's going to
come in between now and then and they're
going to have to react to it. I I will
say keep in mind that we want the Fed to
react before we see a big problem. The
Fed does the best. Think about coming
into COVID. You know, the Fed could see
the writing on the wall with COVID
because it was a pandemic and we had the
health data before we had the economic
data. and they were able to work to
stimulate the economy to cut rates
before we saw the problems of COVID. And
I think that really helped us recover,
have a a less bad economic experience
with COVID and recover quickly. But they
kept rates uh too low too long and we
had that surge of inflation. So they
it's it's a tough balancing act for them
and they're going to have to be looking
forward using the best data they can and
then they're facing a data crisis in the
federal government which is firing
workers uh cutting back staffing which
is making it so that the data is
cloudier um and it taking longer for
accurate data to come out.
>> Betsy a clinic appreciated your time.
Fantastic piece by the way. Thanks for
joining us. the former Labor Department
chief economist Bessie Stevenson there
really framing what a difficult spot
this is for the Federal Reserve and for
the chairman in Jackson Hole this
morning
>> and I think if it was normal times you
could maybe make the argument of one-off
price increases are true but we're
coming off of still high inflation in
the scars of 2022
>> up next on the program we'll catch up
with Mike Schumacker of Wells Fargo
Janette Low of Strategus the former
Trump trade official Kate Kucawitz and
Gersian Distinfeld of Alliance Bernstein
the second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner
[Music]
What you're seeing is a AI concern uh
pullback in big tech.
>> We don't think big tech is overvalued.
The issue is the rest of the index is
struggling to keep up on the earning
cycle. We've got a great catalyst for
for bears, uh, skeptics, and nervous
investors to take profits without FOMO.
>> The market sentiment for the second half
of the year, we think, is already pretty
bearish.
>> I think investors have to re-evaluate
where we're going.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning to you all. Your
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 shaping up as follows.
Positive by 210 of 1% following 5 days
with no gains on the S&P 500. The
longest streak going back to the start
of this year. On the Nasdaq, we're
positive by 210. On the Russell, we're
positive by 0.5. In the bond market,
twos, 10, 30s, just about unchanged this
morning. 37956 at the front end. At the
very long end, 49244
going into this one. 3 hours away.
Chairman Pal in Jackson Hole, Wyoming
with a big speech going into September.
>> So maybe we're unmoved waiting for that.
I have to say I'm surprised more
attention isn't being given to this Wall
Street Journal story about what we're
going to get from Powell about a change
to the framework. Nick Timro is
basically writing that they look like
they're going to be abandoning flexible
average inflationing target while giving
themselves more flexibility on the labor
market. In other words, more rigid on
inflation, less rigid on employment.
That to me sounds hawkish. And remember,
sometimes they put these stories out
there to try to get a market reaction so
he doesn't surprise the market when he
speaks. Unfortunately, you're not
getting a market reaction. So, if that
was the intention, it's not working. But
he has to juggle maybe sounding hawkish
on the margins and not upsetting the
White House.
>> He was hawkish in the news conference.
His assessment of the labor market
solid. We've had this conversation now
for weeks and weeks and weeks. We can
all agree we've seen a step down in the
payroll story. Can see it in the data.
We'll see if it gets revised. But let's
take the data for what it is right now.
What's behind that? A turn in the cycle
or a structural shift? And he gives a
nod to the latter and not the former,
then the market's going to move against
rate pricing for September and maybe
beyond.
>> Oh, for sure. If this is more about
supply for the labor market, if he tries
to underline that, you could definitely
get a reaction. But they probably,
again, to come back to this, don't want
to get the attention of the White House.
There's so much going on. So maybe he
wants to sound hawkish in the margins
doing it through really technical way
about talking about their framework, but
I can't imagine that this is a chair who
really wants to push back on market
pricing just because of the
ramifications of what it would mean.
>> Alisa TK and Mike McKe on the ground in
Jackson Hall bringing you full coverage
from that event, that get together in a
few hours time. Look out for that.
Futures this morning positive and
bouncing back by 0.3%. Coming up this
hour, Mike Schumacker of Wells Fargo as
investors are bracing for Fed share
JPAL's speech at Jackson Hole. Janette
Low of Strategus as the pressure on Fed
Governor Lisa Kirk continues to build
and the former White House trade
official Kate Kucawitz as the US and EU
provide details of a giant trade pact.
We begin this hour with Stock Steady as
markets countdown to Jerome Pal's final
speech in Jackson Hole. Mike Schumacker
of Wells Fargo writing the following. We
think rate and FX markets are likely to
react fairly sharply to the chairman's
speech just as they did last year. Mike
joins us now for more. Mike, welcome to
the program. Let's take it from the top.
What are you looking for in a few hours
time?
>> Yeah, I think there's some boiler plate,
John. So, he's going to talk about the
Fed's accomplishments and also
challenges since 2018. It is, as you
noted, his last speech as chair. So,
that seems like a pretty clear-cut thing
to do. I almost certainly think he's
going to unveil the new framework. That
seems likely. the more symmetric
approach makes a lot of sense. AIT, can
anybody ever really explain it? No. Did
the Fed use it? Not particularly. So,
good riddance. And then, will he
actually go down the rabbit hole of
talking about near-term monetary policy?
Of course, that's what we're all fixated
on. That's the market question. I think
it's not likely, but if he does, things
get really interesting. So, that's what
people are going to be hinged on at
10:00 for sure.
>> Mike, based on the commentary we've had
so far from other Fed officials, do you
think we're overestimating just how much
their views have changed since that
payrolls report?
probably so I mean the Fed talks time
and time again about wanting to be data
dependent now it always is but it's more
intensely data dependent now than normal
and we haven't seen a lot of data
frankly since the payrolls report so I
doubt views have changed a lot so it
seems to me there's been a tremendous
amount of talk and the ratio of talk to
data has been a little bit skewed so far
but I get it it's Jackson Hole you think
about Jackson Hole last year how set the
door wide open to a 50 basis point cut
which the Fed delivered and sub and of
course markets went So there is the
precedent for this to be supermarket
moving. Will he go down that road? I
don't know. I think he must be very very
careful, but he has to be thinking about
it.
>> Mike, what does supermarket moving look
like? Let's say you get a pow who just
says we're data dependent and and that's
it. What's the reaction likely to be?
>> At that point, people say h not that
interesting. Jackson Hole once again was
was talked about a lot, didn't actually
deliver much. And people go about their
way. I think where it gets really
challenging though is let's say Powell
does open the door to a rate cut at
least a little bit in September. You can
see pricing move a ton. So right now the
market's priced for what 17 18 basis
points at the SE meeting. That moves a
little bit. Maybe that goes to 22 or 23.
Where it gets much more intriguing
though is if you think about the more
distant pricing. So right now the
market's priced for the Fed to end the
cycle at 305 something like that. That
number can go down to 285 290 in a
hurry. You think back to non-farm, some
of those more distant Fed pricing
numbers move by 30 basis points in one
day. Jackson Hole would not have that
kind of impact, but it could. And if you
flip it around, if you sound hawkish, it
could be a huge move in terms of
near-term pricing. So, it's really a
very asymmetric approach here today.
>> Wait, sorry. So, are you saying, Mike,
that the bigger market reaction could be
if he opens the door to cuts versus
maybe slightly shutting the door to
cuts?
>> It's a little tricky. So, if he opens
the door to cuts, there's not much
reaction to near-term pricing because
the market's still already teed up for a
rate cut in September. There's much more
of a reaction farther out. So, think
about market reaction or market pricing
for middle of 26, late 26, early 27,
that sort of thing. If instead he sounds
hawkish, flip that around. There's a
huge move in market pricing in the near
term because Apalo basically says, "I'm
not comfortable. I need to see a lot
more data." Then what's the market going
to price for September? five basis
points, 10 basis points, maybe something
like that. It probably wouldn't change
the ultimate destination that much. So,
you'd see a much smaller reaction
farther out in a bigger reaction in the
near term. So, it sounds tricky, but I
think the market's going to have to
parse his words super carefully today.
>> Mike, can we get more specific about
where in the yield curve this might play
out differently? We've been focused a
lot more on the long end, and we're
trying to figure out just how unanchored
and disconnected the story at the long
end is from the debate at the front end
of the curve. 30-year bond yields making
new highs over in Japan. Saw a similar
story in the UK this week. Yields on a
30-year in America still getting closer
and closer to 5% at the moment, too. So,
Mike, I just wonder how you're thinking
about that story at the moment.
>> Yeah, we're negative on the long end,
John. We're negative in market after
market. We think it's a story broadly
across G10. You've got two things going
at the same time which are just hugely
troubling. Number one is supply is
picking up in virtually every country.
The US, we know the story. Big deficit,
that's fine. But when you think about
the rest of the world, defense spending
is climbing at a pretty rapid rate.
That's going to flow through we think in
the long-term issuance. So supply is
picking up. Now against that, think
about structural shifts in demand. This
is a big story. So for a long time, the
DMO types, the treasury types, they've
relied on structural buying from folks
like insurance companies and pensions.
We think that's declining. Take the case
of US pensions for instance. On the
corporate side, solvency is great right
now. The average corporate has something
like 105 106% solveny. But what do you
gain if you go from 105 to 110? Are lots
more pensions going to buy bonds? No,
they already made that trade. They're
in. They're done. And insurance
companies, same basic idea. Why would
they step in and buy a lot of
treasuries? Probably not. But it's not
just a US tale. It's also very
importantly the case in Japan as well.
So slowdown in structural demand against
very very sharp increases in expected
supply. We're negative on 30s across the
board. I don't think the chairman can
say anything to change that story today.
>> So, Micah, this is so so important. When
you listen to the White House and the
president, he's not asking for lower
rates. What he really wants is lower
borrowing costs and one might not lead
to the other. And I want to understand
from your perspective, just from there,
Mike, what you think happens next? What
do you think happens if you're right
that they can drop rates at the front
end, but rates of the long end stay
stubbornly high and borrowing costs for
America and the government don't come
down? What do you think they're going to
do?
>> Yeah, the feedback loop gets tough,
right, John? When you think about the US
interest burden right now, it's gone up
to 3% of GDP, plus or minus. That number
could climb to three and a half pretty
easily. It's already getting painful.
It's already forcing pretty tough
trade-offs in Congress. As that number
ratchets up, then the pressure
politically becomes much more intense.
Is this a problem right now today for
the Trump administration? Probably, but
it could be much more severe in a couple
years. So, I think the trade-off then
becomes how do you really try to bring
down long-term borrowing costs? Pretty
simple. You spend less money. So, is
there the political will right now to
cut that deficit in the US case from
6.5% down to forget three, but even down
to 5%. Just change the direction a
little bit. We've seen no evidence. But,
as I noted, it's really a global
problem. So, it's the case in Japan,
it's the case in Europe, it's the case
in the UK. Broadly speaking, you're
going to see those increases in supply
for a long time. It's tough to rein that
in, but at least changing the direction
of of travel in the US would help quite
a bit.
>> Well, Mike, the last time you saw
deficits the levels that we are was
wartime footing was World War II when
back then you did have the Treasury to
some degree work along with the Federal
Reserve to try to try to tackle that. At
the risk of sounding incredibly
controversial, Mike, why not chip away a
little bit at that independence to have
a Treasury and a Fed who work together
to try to solve what is ballooning
deficits and higher costs for the US.
>> You could do something like that. You
could say, "Look, we can pull out the
1950s playbook and let inflation go up
and then over time get rid of that debt
problem, but it's going to take quite
some time." You could also go to more of
a financial repression approach. People
talked about this in a couple years. So
effectively incent or compel banks,
insurance companies, etc. to hold more
government debt. That could happen. None
of those things is particularly popular.
But as far as getting the Fed together
with the Treasury, that requires
Congress to get involved. Is Congress
really willing to make that step? I
mean, at that point, you've got to be
saying, "Hey, look, to the American
public, we've got this problem. We're
trying to deal with it right now." It
strikes me that it's not really
politically palatable to get way ahead
of the game. So I suspect although it's
becoming an issue in the markets, it's
not yet at the boiling point politically
enough for people.
>> Well, Mike, I think Danny articulated
the argument quite well in the previous
hour. And for those of you that missed
it, Danny essentially made the argument
that for the Federal Reserve, never mind
the politics, if they drop interest
rates and if you see the long sell off
and yields rise, then ultimately they
haven't eased financial conditions in
the mortgage market, which they might be
concerned about. So Mike, with that in
mind, as Danny mentioned earlier, for
monetary policy objectives alone, never
mind the government, the White House,
just for monetary policy objectives
alone, do they need to think about that?
>> They do. And at the end of the day,
John, it's a great point. Think about
how much the economy, let's say, in the
US is tied to very, very short-term
rates versus long-term rates. It's it's
clearly long-term rates that drive the
bus here. So the signal with respect to
Fed funds is important. I think we all
understand that generally speaking
there's a good correlation between
long-term rates and short rates. But in
this case, if very heavy government
borrowing and the supply dynamic we
talked about globally a minute ago
really override the Fed, what is it
accomplished by cutting the funds rate
by 25 or 50 or more? Not a heck of a
lot. And I think that's a tough optic
for the Fed right now. So the Fed wants
to try to message it to drive down
long-term rates at least somewhat, but
they're not cooperating particularly
right now. Having said all that, if POW
opens the door to a cut and if the Fed
goes 25 basis points on SE 17, are long
rates going down? Yes, I think they will
potentially a decent amount, but there's
at least a greater than normal risk that
you don't get the usual relationship.
>> Mike, appreciate your time. Thoughtful
stuff. Mike Schumacer there of Wells
Fargo. We're going down the market
rabbit hole here and it could have huge
consequences for foreign exchange
further down the road. But let's park
all of that. I think you nailed it a
little bit earlier. That's got to be a
consideration for the committee of the
Federal Reserve. right? If they want to
start cutting and loosening monetary
policy, then they have to think about
the long end. And again, for all of the
cries and fears about Fed independence,
we might be in a situation where both
the government and the Federal Reserve
want the same thing. And that is more
easy policy, but you can't do that if
the long end is rising. And that's why I
asked Mike, do you get in a situation
where maybe the Treasury and the Fed
need to work together? That the
independence needs to kind of be chipped
away at just to achieve the goals of one
tackling the deficit and making sure
that this economy isn't cracking under
the pressure of more restrictive rates.
>> Bond yields just about unchanged this
morning. 30s at 492. On the equity side
of things, futures positive by 0.2%.
With an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief, let's cross over
to Yahara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Now we are seeing Nvidia shares
falling 1% in the pre-market on
reporting by the information that the
company has asked suppliers to halt
production of its China focused AI chip
the H20. This comes after our reporting
that Beijing urged local companies to
avoid using the chip. This raising
questions about the demand for the H20
which competes with similar products
from China's Huawei. Meanwhile, Meta has
made another big AI hire. Frank Chu, who
has led Apple's AI teams focused on
cloud infrastructure, will join the
social media giant. That's according to
people familiar. Chu will be joining
Meta super intelligence labs and is at
least the sixth Apple employee working
on AI models to defect to Meta. This
comes as Meta confirms it plans to
freeze AI hiring after its Blockbuster
spending spree. And the Trump
administration will not seek equity
stakes in chipmakers that pledge to
boost their US investments. An official
saying companies like TSMC and Micron
would be exempted from the policy after
they announced billions in US investment
plans for Intel. Talks are still
underway about the White House taking a
potential stake in the company. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
Governor Cook under pressure. I refer
people every week on a minimum uh to the
Department of Justice for mortgage
fraud. Did she sign these documents? I
believe she did sign these documents.
>> That conversation up next with Janet Low
of Strategus live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Speech from the Fed chair JP Pal later
on this morning less than 3 hours away
from Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Futures
right now positive by 210 of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.17 under
surveillance this morning. Governor Kirk
under pressure. We refer people almost
every day. I refer people every week on
a minimum uh to the Department of
Justice for mortgage fraud. This is
literally what I am required to do
underneath the Housing and Economic
Recovery Act of 2008, which is to ensure
the safety and soundness of the mortgage
market. Did she sign these documents? I
believe she did sign these documents.
Here's the latest this morning. The
Justice Department urging Fed Chair
Jalow to remove Governor Kirk from the
board as it plans to investigate.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Mike McKe. Difficult, Mike, for the Fed
chair to address a legal process that
hasn't officially started. I just
wonder, Mike, you've been walking
through the corridors of Jackson Hole in
this annual get together. How's this
playing out?
>> Well, there's a lot of sympathy for Lisa
Cook and the fact that she has joined
Jay Powell in being the object of
derision from the administration. They
also recognize that at this point what
PY is doing is alleging misbehavior on
her part. He is not a judge. He keeps
saying she committed mortgage fraud, but
uh that has yet to be investigated or
adjudicated. So uh I think the sympathy
is with uh Cook for right now, but we
note she did not come to Jackson Hole,
at least not as of last night. She
wasn't at the opening dinner. We don't
know what the new allegations that PY
wants to lodge today are, but uh at this
point there isn't much more to say
except we're waiting to see uh whether
she speaks anymore. I'm told she won't.
Uh but uh we'll wait and see how it
plays out. I would not expect uh J Pal
to say anything publicly about it.
>> We'll hear from Director PY at 9:30
Eastern time. I'm aware of that time. Is
that right? 9:30. 9:30 Eastern time.
Mike. So, we'll hear in a couple of
hours what he's got to say. Mike, I just
wonder from your perspective how
different this is to what happened with
the Dallas Fed president a number of
years ago. Danny mentioned that on
yesterday's program that ultimately it
became a distraction and he resigned.
How different is this?
>> We don't know yet because we don't know
whether the allegations are true and
exactly what they entail uh and and what
it might mean. Now the allegations
against not only Robert Kaplan but uh
against the Boston Fed president as
Rosen Ozenrren and then later on against
Rich Clara who was the vice chair at the
time were that they profited from uh
insider trading because they knew what
the Fed was going to do. They were all
cleared of that. There was no
conviction. There were no court cases.
But they did resign as you say because
they were a distraction. I suppose that
could happen in Cook's case, but the
issue there is, of course, wanting
whether you want to give Donald Trump an
extra seat on the Fed board.
>> But Mike, should that be a consideration
for the Federal Reserve?
>> You know, it's a tough thing to say and
I would I know that if you asked anyone
there, they wouldn't comment on it, but
I'm sure it is. I've talked to some of
the Fed people here who used to say they
they knew Jay Powell was going to leave
and now they say well maybe he won't
because of uh the situation. So there is
a feeling that there could be danger to
the Fed in doing that especially given
the aggressive way that Trump has gone
after the central bank but at this point
uh again it's all up in the air. Nobody
really knows what's going to happen
next.
>> Mike McKe thank you sir on the ground in
Jackson Hall Wyoming. Mike, thank you
sir. Looking forward to following your
reporting. That's kind of shocking to me
if you believe it's a distraction and
let's see how this plays out. But I find
that kind of shocking that you'd be
worried about who the president might
nominate to replace you on the Federal
Reserve board.
>> Well, also to put it really simply, we
don't know what's happened here. The
legal case hasn't started. PY says he's
going to present new evidence. If there
is evidence of fraud, how do you stay
on? If there is evidence of fraud, how
do you stay on? And how do you have the
political concerns be more important
than that? It's that in itself is a
threat to the Fed and the credibility of
it
>> and then the president has a right to
replace you just by definition. Janette
Lar strategus is with us now from a bad
company. Janette, welcome to the
program. Just how much space does a
president currently have to reshape this
Federal Reserve?
>> Well, so that's obviously the Trump
administration has been looking to try
to put its imprint on the Federal
Reserve. They would like to get more of
their members in. I think the fact that
Michael Bar, you know, stepped down as
vice chair but did not get off the
Federal Reserve earlier this year kind
of put some pressure on the
administration in the sense that they
felt like they were getting pressure
back from the Fed and they want to put
more of their imprint now because they
thought that they might have had that uh
that spot open. So this is, you know,
you have Steven Mirren potentially
getting on the Fed within the next
couple of weeks. Um so that's one piece
and then obviously this pressure on Lisa
Cook whether you know she is removed for
cause or whether she is steps down
because of the political pressure that
creates another opportunity for the
president to then have more members
aligned with his views on the Fed and
that's going to be important for
interest rates. That's also going to be
important for make doing a vote on uh
Governor Michelle Bowman's financial
deregulation plan as well. So there is a
pressure within the White House to try
to make their mark and get a majority of
members and I think this is part of that
that effort.
>> Janette, in the short term, as to what
you're saying clearly has ramifications
if you get more Fed Fed governors who
are more dovish, but in the long term,
this concern about independents, the
appointments to the Federal Reserve that
Trump has made are very thoughtful
people. The likes of Chris Waller, some
of the names being floated for Fed
chairs, again, very credible and
thoughtful people. Is it really a
concern for wider Fed independents if
Trump has more of his own picks on the
FOMC?
>> Well, I mean, I think obviously the
administration feels that they should be
able to provide some influence on this
and they were expecting, you know, it's
like standard policy for a Fed chair to
step down um after their term ends even
if their their term on the Fed board has
not ended. So there obviously can be
some concerns about whether or not he is
pushing too much to have more influence.
Um but at the same time the
administration could also argue back
that they feel like uh governors are
staying put to prevent them from having
the influence that they should have
during their their term during their
administration. So I mean there
obviously I could see that there could
be arguments both ways. One of the
interesting things obviously with Lisa
Cook is that she has a very long term
left. Um, so this would allow him to put
someone on the Fed who would then be
there for quite a long time.
>> Just the order of things today. Powell
speaking at 10:00 a.m. 30 minutes right
before him. We're going to get Py him
saying he's making a statement on new
evidence in the Cook matter at 9:30 a.m.
Janette, it's going to be the elephant
in the room. Do you expect Powell to
address it at all?
>> You know, I I don't. Um, I think that I
think Powell, you know, has focused on
various other things. I mean, he's
already been the subject of a lot of
political pressure himself. I think he
wants to make this kind of a speech that
is going to be much more about his
legacy. Um, and it's going to be focused
on certain components. You know,
changing the framework, uh, focusing on
what might be foretold for the September
uh, meeting. Those are the pieces I
think that he really wants to focus on.
I don't think he wants to make this
political. Um, you know, he may say
something about the independence
overall, but I doubt that he would say
anything about this case in particular.
>> Janette, thank you. Appreciate your take
Janette. Hello Lo there strategus. We've
repeated this over the past few days.
It's odd enough and difficult enough to
talk about a legal process that has
started, never mind one that hasn't
started. I just don't think it's
something the chairman can tackle headon
just yet.
>> Well, also just the fact that it would
probably or maybe invite more eyeire
from the White House if he pushes back
really hard on this issue. part about
preserving the independence from Powell
seemingly been trying to create a
barrier, not getting into the politics,
not answering journalist questions at
press conferences. So, I don't see why
this case would be any different.
>> We'll let the process play out if the
process even officially begins. Up next
on the program, the former White House
trade official Kate Kucawitz on the
details of a trade deal between the US
and the EU. Plus, Yhira Island with your
morning movers as Meta signs a $10
billion deal with Google from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
5day losing streak on the S&P 500, the
longest since early January of this
year. You've got to go back about 8
months in the equity market right now.
Equity futures bouncing back by 0.2% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ by.14 with some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara. Hi John.
We start with the latest retailer to
report results and that is BJ's
Wholesale Club shares are up 1 and a4%
after it raised its fullear profit
outlook and the CEO is striking an
optimistic tone saying we are pleased
with the performance on business year to
date and are confident in the outlook in
the back half underscoring the sense
that consumers are still seeking value
and wholesale clubs like this one this
one along with discount retailers like
Raw Stores and TJ Maxx are able to
provide that. So, they are doing well.
And we move to another retailer not
doing so well and that is Gap. Shares
are down 2.6% after Barclays downgraded
the stock to equal weight. The analysts
there are saying that tariff pressures
have taken the company's blue sky margin
scenario off the table. This comes just
ahead of their earnings next Friday,
where investors are hoping for a
turnaround after a disastrous earnings
report last time around that sent shares
falling 20% due to the company warning
that tariffs could cut profits by up to
$300 million.
And we have yet another mega AI deal.
And no surprise, it involves the big
spender Meta. We're reporting that Meta
plans to spend at least $10 billion with
Google Cloud to supercharge its
computing power. This deal underscoring
Meta pushing to scale AI fast and out to
outpace competitors. And also Mandy
Singh says that this validates Google
Cloud's pricing edge since it was able
to beat out both Microsoft and Amazon
which are market leaders in this space.
John
>> company's been so aggressive over the
past few months. Unreal to see Yhara,
thank you. Appreciate it. More from
Yahihara in just a moment on a raise out
this morning. Our top story, divisions
are growing within the Federal Reserve
ahead of Fed share JPAL's final Jackson
Hole speech. The Fed facing a September
rate cut decision with officials
weighing inflation and labor risk. Do we
have a dual mandate going into conflict?
>> Do we have also a Fed that is more
biased towards the inflation side of the
dual mandate? Seems that that is what we
have heard from Fed officials speaking.
But I thought Mike Schumacker put the
market reaction really well. That if you
have a more hawkish Powell, you have a
big reaction on the front end. He
confirms a cut. You have a reaction on
the long end. But even that in itself,
that asymmetry shows us that the front
end and long end are in conflict with
each other. They're pricing in two
different stories perhaps in an
unsustainable way. Well,
>> let's just sit on the long end because
this is something we've been talking
about throughout this morning so far.
the global developments over the past
few months in Japan, in the UK, in the
US, this leakage we're seeing at the
long end of the curve. It's an
international story. Is it going to
become an American problem? Is it
something that officials need to respond
to?
>> Well, the story internationally is kind
of the same one in the US. This issue of
growing deficits. You see in Japan, they
have auctions that have done extremely
poorly, and you get a few of those in
the US. If it grows to be a bigger
problem, is it not just officials that
have to do something, but is it the Fed
that needs to get creative if they want
to cut and make sure that long-term
rates don't move even higher?
>> You can cut interest rates and financial
conditions in certain places of the
economy don't ease. You've been talking
about this. I'm totally there with you.
It's something we saw take place last
year when they reduced interest rates by
100 basis points. Mortgage rates didn't
go down, they went up. And if that
repeats this time around, that is not
the objective of this White House.
They've talked about housing. They've
talked about borrowing cost. If you see
that play out, it's going to become a
problem.
>> That's the thing. President Trump has
been clamoring for rate cuts over a 100
basis points. We've seen a 100 basis
points get priced in over the next 12
months. What has happened? It's a tenure
that's remained flat and it's a 30-year
that has moved higher. But again, you
might get in a situation where the White
House and the Fed want the same thing,
and that is easier conditions and a more
controlled, longer end of the curve.
>> There's another problem over at the
Federal Reserve, a potential one anyway.
The Justice Department urging the
Federal Reserve to remove Governor Lisa
Kirk ahead of an expected probe into
accusations of mortgage fraud. Top
housing regulator Bill Py posting OnX.
He will share new information regarding
the story later on this morning.
>> I think the thing that really strikes me
is the timing of this. He's speaking at
9:30. Who speaks at 10:00? It is Jay
Powell. 30 minutes after we hear from
whatever evidence this is. And look,
it's unlikely. Let's be honest, it
probably won't change whatever Powell
says considering he probably has been
thinking about this for some time, but
it's going to be the elephant in the
room. Sure, the theme of Jackson Hole is
about a changing labor market, but the
unofficial theme, let's be honest, is
that independence
>> without a doubt. And the chairman is not
going to address it, is he? Unless he
gives some throwaway line about the
important of things. I just wonder
whether everyone else who attends does
it for him. This is something Lisa
talked about yesterday that you will
have the likes of BCB president
Christine Lagard who might do those kind
of things for him. And I know they're
speaking, Lisa's speaking to Nago later
and some of the other officials from
other central banks. I'm really
interested to hear what they say to her
and how much they beat that drum. Does
it fall on deaf ears though? How much of
a difference does it make? But the Fed's
problems are global problems to the
point of the yield curve, the longer end
affecting everyone in the entire world.
So Christine Lagarde has skin in this
game surely, but where do they go from
here with a White House that really
seems intent on trying to get more
appointees into the FOC? We're building
up to a very, very interesting morning.
It starts with Chairman Pal at 10:00
a.m. As Danny pointed out, maybe you
want to look to what Director Paul's got
to say at 9:30 Eastern time, 30 minutes
ahead of those remarks. I mentioned
Meta, you did too, poaching another AI
executive from Apple. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that Frank Chu will be
at least the sixth Apple employee to
defect to a social networking company.
We've seen a few of those in the past
few weeks.
>> Yeah, two thoughts. One, poor Apple. Who
in the world do they have left? too.
There was just a story yesterday that
Meta was looking at freezing AI hiring.
It's like saying you're going to go on a
diet but then eating $200 million worth
of donuts that morning for breakfast.
But they just keep hollowing out all of
the AI talent. I think it also
underscores kind of an unsettling part
of this labor market that you have a
handful of people becoming incredibly
wealthy with really high pays around AI.
You also have people becoming wealthy
because they are trading in the stock
market around AI at the same time that
it's a stagnating labor market. We've
talked at nauseium since co about a
K-shaped economy. This feels like it's
going to exacerbate that.
>> I don't know how this plays out in the
long term, but Luke Hower, I think, did
a fantastic job recently of talking
about this, just how regressive the
early stages of this might be and that
gap that we see, not just in America,
but in other countries, too. Could get a
whole lot wider in the first few, let's
say, first few years of rolling this
out. I also think there's this really
interesting conversation and debate
going on about crowding out whether this
is crowding out other investments. You
usually think about it in the federal
government, but this time around if it
is a hyperscaler type environment where
they need a lot of resources, not just
talent, not just capital, but power, but
energy, does that crowd everyone else
out? Is it normal people having to pay
more for electricity because you have
the AI hyperscalers hoovering up so much
of it?
>> You've seen the same charts. This could
become a huge problem politically going
into the midterms. Not just housing, but
the price of electricity. And I'm not
sure how you explain it away. I'm not
sure how you counter it either,
particularly in places like Europe where
they don't have the energy abundance
that we have in the United States.
>> And it's something that could also
weaken the growth outlook. This is
something Neil Da has talked about a
lot. You add in all of this to what
already seems to be like some cracks
among consumers. What happens when they
have to pay more for energy? To your
point, Europe's also living with the
scars of really high energy prices. How
do they deal with that? How does
consumer behavior change?
>> Meta this morning up by about a tenth of
1%. Let's turn to trade. China creating
a united front with India against US
tariffs, writing, China will firmly
stand with India to uphold the
multilateral trading system with the
World Trade Organization at its core.
Joining us now, Kate Kukowitz, the
former White House trade official. Kate,
can we just sit on that statement? I I'd
love your reaction to that. China will
firmly stand with India to uphold the
multilateral trading system with the WTO
at its core. The irony. Kate, your
reaction, please.
>> Yeah, I'm struggling not to laugh out
loud. Um, you know, China likes to try
to win this sort of rhetoric game. And
the the irony indeed of of China, which
really has been, of course, the source
of the downfall of the WTO trying now to
to lead is is something I think the US
was probably chuckling at, won't respond
to.
>> Okay. Do you think they need to get the
Europeans on side? And I'm talking about
the US here. For a long, long time,
China has benefited from the rest of the
world being open and them being
relatively closed. And this is something
that successive US administrations have
tried and tried to do something about
and the Europeans have struggled to get
on board with the United States. Do you
think it's different this time around?
>> I do think it's different this time
around. We've steadily seen a change in
other countries, particularly the
Europeans, being more willing to
confront the Chinese economic challenges
more directly. You know, moving from
calling China a competitor to a really
strategic problem. Uh and of course
you've seen in these trade framework
agreements the Trump administration has
struck with a number of countries
provisions around economic security and
that's really code words uh covering
provisions really directed at China
trans shshipment export controls you
know things that are really aimed at uh
cutting this relationship economically
between our trading partners and China.
This is a dramatic change. Kate, what
does it look like though if you have a
China who is more willing to take in and
stand by the likes of India? What does
that look like? And what does it mean
for negotiations already underway or
pauses underway between US and China
trade talks?
>> Well, I'd actually look at it in the
lens of the US and India. I look at the
countries that are willing to to cidle
up next to China. I'd argue that's
probably a losing prospect. uh China is
not in it to support India. China is in
it to to fight the United States. I
think that's a losing position for
India. It would be a losing position for
Brazil. Uh and I think probably
long-term we will see that start to
fracture. China is not going to defend
India's interests long term. It's going
to look out for itself. Well, at the
same time, in the background of all of
this, you have the US. Part of their
approach to India has been that of
Russian oil. Notably, they haven't hit
out at China on secondary tariffs around
Russian oil. Kate, how do you think the
US is going to continue to approach this
if it is an India that has been stubborn
and not willing to change course on
that?
>> It's a great question. I think that this
this play with India has has taken a
little bit longer than than folks had
expected. You know, we were very close,
I believe, to a trade deal between the
US and India. and a little bit of the
stubbornness probably related to India's
anger over President Trump declaring you
know it was he who solved problems with
Pakistan and and a couple other national
security related items. I think this has
stymied Mod's ability to maneuver
politically within his own country. So I
I I suspect we will see a leader level
engagement between the presidents at
sometime soon. I think it will take that
to unstick this relationship. But I do
remain relatively positive that we will
see an outcome at a very high level that
takes down some of the pressure here. It
will have to relate uh somewhat I think
to India's move away from Russian oil.
This has been something the Trump
administration has really prioritized
recently which is you know outside of
the trade lane uh but nonetheless could
unstick some of the trade problems if
India makes some changes the Trump
administration is looking for. To your
point, India is one of the last that
doesn't have that high level agreement.
And we're starting to kind of understand
the contours of what happens after you
get that agreement with yesterday newly
published version of US and EU trade.
Kate, it's not yet a legally enforcable
pact. It's certainly a step towards one.
How far are we from definitive certainty
when it comes to trade for places where
we have gotten those agreements?
>> Right. These agreements which you know
are announced with a lot of pomp and
circumstance sometimes lack detail. We
are still seeing a lack of legal detail.
If you read the joint statement, you'll
see very careful language around intents
and we'll move toward towards. We are
we're far away from some of the legally
binding language I think that companies
would like to see for certainty. But
nonetheless, yesterday's statement, I
think, is is among one of the more
detailed joint statements, uh, laying
out exactly what both sides expect to do
going forward. We're at a fairly
dramatic turning point in the
transatlantic relationship. You know, we
had a president who said the EU was
created to screw the United States and
and now we see all of these shows of of
camaraderie, not only the meetings at
the White House earlier in the week, but
this trade framework, which signifies a
win on both sides. They need each other.
Kate, appreciate your time. Thank you,
Kate. Kucawitz there, the former White
House trade official on the current
trade situation. So much has happened
over the past few months.
>> So much has happened. Again, it's led to
a lot of confusion as we try to figure
out the details just because Anmarie has
been really good about this. The fact
that everything has been done in
reverse. You get the big picture thing,
the high level meetings, and then you
figure out the details later. But I
think your point on Europe, the
Europeans is such a good one because
there's still a lot of sticking points.
Things like digital sovereignty. Is the
EU really want to give up some of their
tough regulations on the world's biggest
technology companies which are American?
So, a lot yet to be figured out even
though you have that broad agreement.
>> It's not usually how diplomacy works,
right? Usually, they go into these bank
rooms, iron out all the details, then
when everything's set, get the leaders
to sit in a room and then they basically
sign off on everything that's already
been agreed. It's like the reverse that
as you described,
>> right? Well, not only can you not do
that, but it seems that even when you
had that backroom kind of trading like
Switzerland, you can have a president
come in and say, "No, I wasn't part of
this deal, so it doesn't count."
>> If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Futures positive this morning
by 0.2% as we count you down to that
chairman Pal speech later on this
morning with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahira. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, John. A New York appeals court has
thrown out a massive fraud penalty
against President Trump and his company.
The court upheld the finding that he
broke the law by inflating the value of
his assets, but ruled the nearly half a
billion dollar fine was excessive. New
York Attorney General Leticia James has
vowed to challenge the ruling.
Meanwhile, Eric Trump plans to visit
Tokyo next month as part of the family's
crypto industry push. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, the US president's
son plans to attend a shareholder
meeting of the Japanese Bitcoin treasury
firm Metaplanet on September 1st. And
you all were talking about trade. Well,
here's the latest on India. 50% punitive
tariffs on imports from India will kick
in as planned next week. This has White
House trade adviser Peter Navaro says
India is cozying up to China and that
its purchasing of Russian oil is helping
fund Moscow's war in Ukraine. In India,
officials are set to be perplexed by the
US criticism. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
staying on the golden path.
>> We've had mixed messages. We've had some
inflation reports that came in milder
than we expected. And I was feeling good
because I thought if the tariffs kind of
stay in their lane, there is a real
sense in which maybe we never left the
golden path. Just how much has things
changed? Gersian distant, founder of
Alliance Bernstein joins us next from
New York. This is Bloomberg.
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Futures positive by 0.2% on the
S&P 500, up by a tenth on the NASDAQ
100. We are about 2 hours and 10 minutes
away from hearing from the Fed chair
JPEL in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Under
surveillance this morning, staying on
the golden path.
>> We've had mixed messages. We've had some
inflation reports that came in milder
than we expected and I was feeling good
because I thought if the tariffs kind of
stay in their lane, there is a real
sense in which maybe we never left the
golden path. The last inflation report
that came in where you saw services
inflation really start shooting up is a
danger. I'm hoping that that's bit of a
blip.
>> We'll see if it is. Here's the latest.
The divided committee coming together at
Jackson Hold ahead of Fed chair J Pal's
speech at 10 a.m. Eastern time. Gersian
distant found of Alliance Bernstein
writing, "I would be surprised if Pal
said anything to confirm a September
rate cut, but he will keep the door open
to it. I don't think he wants a bond
market selloff right now." Gersian joins
us now for more. Gersian, welcome to the
program, sir. It's been way too long.
I'm trying to be super open-minded about
this, and I'd love your view on things.
The connection between the debate at the
front end of the curve and the story out
further along the curve. How connected
are those two things?
>> Yeah, I think much less connected than
than we have had in the past. And you
know, I've heard guest after guest come
on the past couple days with you, John.
And they're they're really dancing
around the real issue. On the one hand,
they admit that the Fed is in a really
difficult position right now, right? The
dual mandate, and we'll see if Pal hints
at changing it. Um, but the dual mandate
has them stuck. They're not sure what to
do, right? Growth, inflation, giving
different signals. But then at the same
time, people are also admitting that
what really matters is the long end of
the curve. And what people are not then
concluding wi is that the Fed just has a
lot less influence on the direction of
things than they've had in the past.
That's just the reality. So everyone's
going to it'll be good theater to hear
the speech at 10:00. I'm looking forward
to hearing it also. And if you if you're
a trader and you care about what markets
are going to do today, you're going to
pay a lot of attention to it. But I
don't think there's a lot that can be
said that's really going to impact the
real issue which is a longer end of the
curve.
>> Well Gersian on that point if they have
less control of the longer end of the
curve that means monetary policy
transmission has changed and their
effectiveness of doing so has changed. A
lot has been made about who holds debt
these days and whether or not they can
affect that as much. What does it mean
going forward? What does it mean if the
Fed wants to start cutting if the long
end is out of their control?
Well, obviously there is some impact in
the short end. Look, we're seeing it in
the corporate market, right? We're
seeing that on the margin, you know,
financing costs uh have been have been
stubbornly high and they've been flowing
through uh to credit metrics, but I
don't know there's that much they can
do. The reality is that especially it's
a worldwide problem, especially in the
US, we have a real problem with the
budget deficit, and I think markets are
going to continue to to look at that.
Look, I I this is a really out of
consensus view because it's just not
what we've seen over the past 50 years.
But I would not be surprised if we wake
up, you know, I don't know when, two,
three, four, five years from now and the
10 years at a much more normal rate.
It's at three, three and a half%, I
don't know, something like that. And
the, you know, close your ears for this
and the 30 years at 6%. I mean, I'm not
predicting that's definitely going to
happen. What I'm saying is it's not out
of the realm of possibility. I think
investors worldwide are going to be
hesitant to lend for 30 years to the
United States given that there's just no
political willpower on either side to
get the budget deficit under control.
>> Gersian, I'm just trying to understand
what that world would look like. 6%
maybe we can't even fathom that at this
moment, but just something a little bit
higher on the long end. What would be
the mechanisms for dealing with that?
And what does it mean about the
trajectory of deficits in the US and
being able to grow and have debt issued
and foreigners buy it?
>> Well, look, I I think we have to
remember that, you know, if you look at
the long arc of history, five or 6% is
not crazy. You know, when I entered this
industry 30 years ago, right, the 10ear
was in the mid5s and people thought, uh,
you know, that was the about the lowest
it had been in 20 years. And people were
like, "Wow, that's that's really uh
that's really expensive. if it can only
go up from here. And now we've been in a
period of very very low rates for a long
time until recently and people think the
other way. There's a big recency bias.
But I I think that it's going to weigh
on growth. There's no question about it.
And you know the question then is is AI
or other areas of productivity going to
offset that and we'll still have a good
outcome. I think that's a very very hard
thing to to forecast.
>> Gersian what you're pointing to is
concern about sovereign balance sheets.
What I don't hear is concern about
corporate balance sheets. So with that
in mind, as a credit guy, how are you
thinking about the relative value in say
corporate America versus the sovereign
and how much tighter can spreads get?
>> I think spreads are very tight. There's
no question about that. But I think
John, it's important to recognize that
it's yields that generate returns and
not spreads. In fact, you put a gun to
my head. I think spreads are going to
widen from here, but I'd still recommend
buying high yield or credit. And and the
reason for that is the way spreads are
going to likely widen is at some point
you know we expect we do expect the Fed
to cut either two or three times this
year and continue to cut potentially
next year as it becomes clearer that you
know the data is softening on the growth
side in the labor market. Um but what's
going to happen then is the short end of
the curve and that's really where high
yield is high has a duration of under
four right so the three to five year
part of the curve is going to rally
hard. high yield yields are going to
come down as well, but they won't come
down as much, which means that spread is
going to widen. But, you know, for most
investors, you know, you're going to
still get uh yield type or yield type
plus returns from credit. So, look, I
I'm certainly not banging the table. You
know, back in April and May, I think
things got very very cheap. Um, it's
it's it's a relative value game. The
reality is that everything is expensive
right now and I think we should expect
lower returns across the board both from
stocks and from bonds. Um but that gap
is going to close. Stocks have done so
much better than bonds over the past
several years and that gap's going to
close and that's why I think people
still need to have fixed income in their
portfolio.
>> Gersian, just quickly, if you send the
jet and I make it down there, do you
think I'll make it down there in time,
get a cold beer, watch chairman pow
together, sit out on that deck?
>> Yeah, I'm definitely in Jackson Hole as
you can see. You know, Chairman Powell
doesn't go anywhere without my without
me and advising up to the last second.
But but yeah, you can h No, you're a
little bit late. You're in New York,
John. Not going to be able to make it.
>> Wrong state. Gersian, enjoy yourself.
Looks like you are already. Gersian
Distance
Bernstein down in Florida.
>> Having a good time. I think we're in the
wrong state this morning.
>> I think we are.
>> Deck with Gersian.
>> The weather here has been dreadful the
last few days, right?
>> Really, really bad. No, there's no other
way to watch Powell besides beer in your
hand, sunny skies. It's the way to do
talking about fixed income bond markets
and the Federal Reserve chair just how
we like it. Up next on the program,
Aaron Kennedy Clear Harbor Asset
Management, Tony Wang of Tro Price,
Bruce Casman of JP Morgan, and Jean
Bavan of Black Rockck as we count you
down to an address from the Fed chair,
Jay Pal and Jackson Hole, Wyoming, two
hours away from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
If pal talks at all about cutting rates,
it's going to be sort of incremental
steps ahead.
>> He will probably put a lot of focus on
the importance of preserving price
stability.
>> Very much unlike last year when Powell
made it clear that a cut was coming,
he's going to keep his options open.
>> There is a decent economic argument.
This isn't really about political
interference at all. Pal will be
cautious.
>> J Pal in terms of his legacy is looking
at what happens to his mandate.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Chairman Pal 2 hours away. The opening
bow 90 minutes away. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 look like this. Here are the
scores. We're positive 0.2% 2% on the
S&P, bouncing back from a 5-day losing
streak higher by 0.1 on the NASDAQ 100.
In the bond market, huge debate about
this debate at the front end and the
connection to the story at the longer
end of the curve. 30-year bond yields at
49142, twos at 379 going into this one.
Chairman Powell 2 hours away. And I
think it's really telling that he is
giving this speech at a moment where
long ends are bumping up around cycle
highs where in Japan you're seeing JGB
yields for the 30-year yield reach the
highest that we've seen because there's
a question just about the longer term
and we were just speaking about this
with Alliance Bernstein of in the future
how policy transmission works. If you
have a Fed that maybe wants to cut but a
long end that is stubbornly high. the
efficacy of interest rate policy, which
for monetary policy officials is a
problem in and of itself. Layer on top
the political pressure when the
government right now wants to lower
borrowing costs and want to see
mortgages and a price of mortgages come
down. This could become a problem
further down the road.
>> And of course, there's the risk that
they exacerbate it by doing moves that
seemingly damage the independence of the
Fed. Whether or not it damages the
independence is kind of not even the
story. It's the perception of it that
maybe makes people less willing to buy
long-term bonds or just need a higher
risk premium for doing so. So, it's an
administration that wants yields down,
but let's be honest, they want mortgages
down, so they need the long end of the
curve to move.
>> This Federal Reserve is in a tricky
spot. Your equity market attempted to
bounce positive by 0.2%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Aaron Canada,
Clear Harbor Asset Management as stocks
look to avoid a sixth consecutive day of
losses. Tony Wang of T-Roll Price will
join us ahead of Nvidia earnings next
week and John Baran of Black Rockck as
investors look for a signal from Fed
share JP Pal. We begin this hour in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming as the Fed chair
JPAL prepares to make his final Jackson
Hole address. Lisa's there on the ground
ahead of that speech. Brammo frame
things for us. What can we look ahead to
in a few hours time?
>> Look, I think you guys put it really
well. This is a really fraught moment
for the Federal Reserve because on one
hand the actual act economic backdrop is
so confusing. Is it really the
inflationary pressure or is it a
potential weakening in the labor market
that you take their uh their attention
but also how do you maintain Fed
credibility? And as Daniel was saying,
it is not only the ability to act
without political interference, but it's
the perception to do so. And that is
heightened by the idea that if this
Federal Reserve makes the same sort of
transitory mistake as they made several
years ago, does that leave them without
the credibility of being able to tamp
down inflation? And that seems to be
looming large at least in the commentary
of Austin Goulsby as well as some of the
others uh Jeff Schmid uh and and others
who have spoken in the past 36 hours.
Also though on the other side of the
mandate and what I was hearing from a
number of Fed officials here on the
ground yesterday they have seen a market
deterioration in the labor market at
least in anecdotal data in is in
addition to uh what they are seeing in
the hard data in the past 6 weeks that
has them concerned if they allow the
labor market to fall out of bed that too
will impact their credibility at the
same time that you have all of the
allegations coming from the white house.
So definitely a really interesting
moment and one that Jay Powell has to
navigate uh given how much of a
spotlight really is on him.
>> Lisa, let's just sit on that. It's how
we started the program a little bit
earlier this morning just on the labor
market. From a market perspective, a lot
changed after payrolls, but listening to
Fed officials in the past 24 hours, we
didn't get the sense that their views
had shifted that much off that one
report. Can you just give us some more
color on that? How much have views
changed since payrolls?
You know, it's a great question and it
goes down to the division on the Fed
that we keep talking about. We talk
about Chris Waller. We talk about Mickey
Bowman and how they were the first or
the most descent that we've seen on the
board of governors in decades. But it
goes beyond that. And when you talk to
people in private, this is concerning to
them because when they talk to their
corporate clients or they talk to
corporate executives, they hear a
different story depending on what region
they're in. This isn't one America that
they're trying to gauge. an average
American, as Patrick Harker, who's going
to be joining us, has said, doesn't
exist anymore. So, how do they take what
is going on in this sort of aggregate
and form monetary policy? This is the
reason why how do you maintain Fed
monetary policy credibility at a time
where the transmission mechanism, as you
and Danny were talking about, is really
in question. How much can they influence
in real time the labor market or
inflation dynamics? I was speaking with
one official yesterday who said it's
quite clear that the Fed can influence
inflation better than it can or more
quickly than it can the labor market. So
you don't want to disrupt the labor
market because you cannot intervene in
the same kind of way as you can for the
inflation side. That's obviously a more
dovish take. Clearly there are many
hawks who clearly have that scarring
from 2022 also are very much dug in
especially given the political
interference. So right now it feels like
a splintered Fed at a highly fraught
moment.
>> Alisa, just before you go, one final
question. What they tell us in public,
as you know, is so different to what
they tell us behind closed doors. How is
this story of Federal Reserve
independence, the additional pressure on
the institution playing out in Jackson
Hole?
So, it's a really good point that in
private conversations is where everybody
keeps this and where it has come down to
is speculation on who's going to set the
tone for the Federal Reserve next year.
That is going to really be a big
question. Who can actually plate
President Trump's desires while
remaining true to the economy? And how
much can the market push back? How much
can the Fed, whether it's with yield
curve control or some other measure, try
to tamp down some of the response that
you may see in markets. But it all comes
down to the dollar because that
ultimately is a release valve and it
isn't necessarily predicated completely
on US policy and US traders and that I
think is a preeminent concern along
around a lot of policy makers here. The
dollar weakens too much all of a sudden
you have a new inflationary pressure in
addition to a whole host of others.
>> Lisa looking forward to the coverage.
Rammo in Jackson Hole alongside TAM Mike
McKe about an hour away. That's when the
conversation starts for them. 60 minutes
after that we'll hear from chairman pal
Lisa Na it yield curve control now Danny
this has been our discussion so far this
morning maybe a better interview
question right now is not what what do
you want to do with interest rates not
that but what do you want to do with the
balance sheet and what will you do if
longen rates don't come down
>> right because they have this problem of
cutting rates isn't necessarily going to
bring the long end down this is a
problem that they had in past cutting
cycles where they couldn't do that so do
you introduce the question of yield
curve control But how much is it a
market that would push back against
that? How much of it is seeing what's
happening in politics and not willing to
buy the long end of this yield curve? It
is so much for them to consider and
again the blunt force instrument tool of
just rates isn't enough to tackle it.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Aaron Kenn of Clear Harbor
Asset Management writing the following.
The Federal Reserve finds itself in a
true conundrum. Our base cases that Fed
chair JPAL will leave the door open for
a September rate cut and that his
comments will do little to push back on
this view. Aaron Canada, Clear Harbor
Asset Management joins us now for more.
Aaron, welcome to the program, sir.
Let's get into that. How much pressure
is on this Fed chair today and how much
hinges on CPI in a few weeks time and
payrolls the first week of September?
>> Well, that's that's right, Jonathan.
Thanks for having me. you know, I think
at the end of the day that that the Fed
has two more important data points to
look at and uh they don't seem to be in
a position to want to sort of you know
shift towards the political narrative
which is that you know they need to cut
rates to sort of um you know feed into
the sort of white house narrative. I
think that they're looking at the labor
market. They're seeing those those
anecdotal signs of some softening. We
saw that in the jolt data. saw that and
that the last employment data set and
the revisions and and all the talk
around that, but but they're also sort
of grappling with the reality that that
inflation core CPI is at 3.1%.
And uh if you look at, you know,
long-term break even inflation rates,
they're still, you know, just below
2.5%.
And there are other anecdotal concerns
around tariffs and whether or not that's
really fed through uh in in their
entirety with with inventories now just
having burned down from from Liberation
Day. So, I I I suspect today may be an
opportunity for the Fed to sort of
continue to state what they said uh back
uh on July 30th and to uh you know,
probably put some weight on the the next
two big uh data points before the uh the
September meeting.
>> Just looking back at what Powell said on
that July press conference, financial
conditions are accommodative, the
economy not performing as though
restrictive policy were holding it back
inappropriately. Erin, if we got
something like that, what would be the
reaction from markets? Certainly not
opening the door or at least confirming
a September cut.
>> Yeah, it's it's interesting. I think
that the the risk today is, you know, a
week ago, we were looking at the
potential for a 50 basis point cut. If
you look at Fed funds futures, today
we're not even at the 100% likelihood of
a 25 basis point cut. So, you know, in
some ways, you know, I think that the
Fed just may be trying to sort of pull
the market back towards where it its
north star is heading into September,
which is probably uh a 25 basis point
cut. And it's it's probably better from
a market reaction perspective to have
the market, you know, wondering whether
or not they're even going to do 25. I
think I was looking at Fed funds
futures. It's like a 65 70% chance of a
25 basis point cut at the September
meeting. that if you're the Fed, you
sort of think, well, maybe that's a good
position for the market to be starting
to think think about.
>> Well, Aaron, that's the bond market.
What about this equity market that's
seen consecutive days of losses, the
most since the start of this year? How
much of that reversing and getting back
to rallying is predicated on getting a
clear signal that we will be cutting
rates?
>> I don't know. I mean, I think we've gone
such a long way even since April with
the S&P up over 30 odd percent. we have,
you know, earnings that came in
reasonably strong. I mean, 11%
annualized earnings growth relative to
the consensus just before uh, you know,
earnings came out at like four or 5%. If
you look at MAG 7, they which, you know,
big percentage of course of the market,
over a third of the S&P 500, driving
earnings, 26% growth rate, expectations
for 13%. And the market's, you know,
taking a a breather now. We're trading
at 22 times forward on the S&P. If you
look at the 493 names outside the mag 7
trading at 20 times, I mean certainly
this is not a a moment to think that the
market is is super attractive on a
valuation perspective, but the growth is
there and I think that's justifying sort
of where we are at the moment.
>> Erin, just to build on that, what would
we need to see to support a more
sustainable transition rotation beneath
the surface of this equity market? Hints
of it emerging sporadically over the
past few days, but what would we need to
see to make it more durable,
sustainable? Well, it's interesting,
Jonathan. I mean, I think there are a
couple of things in mind, and this has
been a multi-month trend. Now, year to
date, you look at, you know, who who's
leading the market from a sector
perspective, industrials,
utilities, uh, communication services,
and technology are are in there as well,
but industrials number one. Uh, and so I
I I think that speaks to a broadening.
Uh if you look at the contribution of
returns to the S&P this year, there are
names outside the MAG 7 that are that
are in there. Names like and I'm not I'm
not touting these but just you know
Philip Morris and Palunteer. And so
there's a broadening. If you see the
rates uh the Fed funds rate cut, you may
start to see small cap equities start to
broaden that rally. But I think the fear
is that a rate cut or multiple rate cuts
in particular could could could occur as
a result of slower growth. And if we
have a slower growth narrative, I don't
think that helps small caps. If we have
rates being cut because CPI is coming
off, there's a perception inflation is
normalizing, then I think you could you
could see the broadening in the equity
market.
>> Aaron, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Aaron Canon, Clear Harbor, Asset
Management, Echoing, what we heard from
John Sto of Oppenheimer on the price
action we've seen through the year so
far. The problem with that though is
with industrials and utilities also
rallying, you could make the case that
those are also just AI adjacent trades
that things like energy AI data center
buildouts that that's offering that
premium that you're seeing going on in
those stocks. So, uh if the AI narrative
falters, do those two.
>> Number two performer on the S&P 500 this
year. Pneumont in a mix in the top 10,
eBay, CVS, General Electric. There are
some names outside of that concentration
we talk about every single day. There
are but again if just given the market
cap waiting since the Nadira in the
spring the top 10 stocks have
contributed 60% of the returns what are
the top 10 stocks it goes something like
tech tech finance finance that's what it
looks like
>> the big one next week looking ahead to
that big name reporting earnings always
too late equity futures on the S&P 500
positive this morning just about and
looking to bounce let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief here's Yahara hey yara
>> hi John FBI agents rated Former Trump
National Security Adviser John Bolton's
Maryland home this morning. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the raid
involves classified documents. Bolton
was previously alleged to have included
classified information in a book he
released several years ago. Bolton and
the FBI have declined to comment.
Meanwhile, Russia is stopping oil
shipments again to Hungary and Slovakia
after a third Ukrainian Ukrainian attack
on the Drewba pipeline. Flows to the two
nations average about 220,000 barrels a
day. Now, Slovakia and Hungary are
asking the EU's intervention, asking it
upholds its commitments to guarantee the
security of energy supplies for EU
member states. and a federal judge
ruling the sprawling immigration
detention camp known as Alligator
Alcatraz must wind down operations and
be dismantled. The US District Court
judge ordered immigration authorities to
stop bringing in detaine detainees after
finding it was built without proper
environmental review. That's Bloomberg
Reef. John
>> Har, thank you. More from Yhierra in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus Tony
Wong of Troll Price looking ahead to
earnings from Nvidia. Those earnings
about a week away from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
He's
going to talk about the Fed's
accomplishments and also challenges
since 2018. It is, as you noted, his
last speech as chair. I almost certainly
think he's going to unveil the new
framework. That seems likely. The more
symmetric approach makes a lot of sense.
Will he actually go down the rabbit hole
of talking about near-term monetary
policy? Of course, that's what we're all
fixated on. That's the market question.
I think it's not likely, but if he does,
things get really interesting.
>> That is the market question. Here's the
market action. Bouncing back by two ten
of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.2. That's the price action. Let's get
you some morning calls. First up, Stifel
cutting its price target on Zoom to 80,
citing macro conditions and pressure on
revenue growth. Your second call from
Piper Sander raising its price target on
Broadcom to 315, saying it's well
positioned in the AI landscape. And
finally, Evercore raising its price
target on Nvidia to 214, saying the chip
maker is still the top pick in the near
term. Let's stick with Nvidia. Stock is
down this morning. The company telling
suppliers to halt H20 chip production.
The information reporting China is
urging local companies to stop using the
hardware. Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us around the table.
Mandep, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> What's happening here over in China?
Well, we know uh when Nvidia guided last
quarter, they pretty much took off all
the China revenue. Then during the
quarter, we heard H20s could be sold and
now we are hearing the push back from
Chinese government saying uh probably
they don't want the H20s to be sold to
the Chinese companies and in this case I
think Nvidia probably is pulling back in
terms of uh their ability to sell to
China. So to my mind nothing has changed
in terms of the guide that they gave.
It's just people were anticipating some
upside to China revenue because Nvidia
would be able to sell H20s. I don't
think that's happening. So that upside
to estimates probably from the China
side is going to go away.
>> There was that Reuters story earlier
this week that Nvidia was also looking
at developing a different chip maybe
more powerful than the H20 that it could
sell into China. Are there other
strategies if a H20 that source of
revenue gets cut off via China for
Nvidia to get around it with say a new
chip?
>> I don't think so. Simply because the
government feels you know you're dealing
with sensitive data when you're training
these models and they just want to lower
their reliance of the companies that are
in the business of training large
language models in China on let's say
Nvidia chips or for that matter AMD. And
so from that perspective, I do think
they want to rely on the local chip
makers. But uh H20s is a deprecated
version like Nvidia is so far ahead in
terms of where they are currently and
where they want to go that selling S20s
was uh you know inferior to begin with
and if they can't sell those I can't see
them getting around that uh ability to
you know sell some other version of
their chip.
>> Mandep stay close. I want to bring in
Tony Wong of Tro Price who's following
this sector very closely. Tony, welcome
to the program. Sir, how do you compare
and contrast the ramp up that we've seen
in sovereign customers for the likes of
Nvidia paired against the developments
we've witnessed in China over the past
two months alone?
>> Yeah. Well, I think that um AI and the
demand for compute continues to be
really strong here. I think you saw the
cloud numbers be really impressive and
the AI race continues. I think what's
going on in China is um continuation of
that. It's probably negotiation of like
you know how much Nvidia chips and what
power and performance is available um
and in terms of just what they need it
continues to grow. So uh to me I think
what matters that Nvidia stays ahead um
that the world is developing on US uh
technology Nvidia platforms and to me
that's the northstar in terms of for
what the the market should look for
>> to the point of Nvidia staying ahead
Tony clearly China as Mandeep was laying
out wants them to use homegrown chip
makers how far away are those homegrown
chip makers are they a realistic
alternative to Nvidia for China tech
right now
>> I don't think so um I think that uh you
often get these types of news reports of
China being pretty close with a new chip
coming. We've seen this like kind of
time after time over the last 5 to 10
years. And so to me, that's nothing new
of a new cycle and probably part of
negotiation. Uh but to me like the
Nvidia ecosystem, the if you look at
like what they're doing essentially,
they're designing the whole system and
more of the data center together. um and
what they're doing on the networking and
the CPU and ARM and and in terms of all
the library of software um that
continues to be like I think ahead but
you know I think the company's
continuing to execute and innovate on
new product as well. Well, it's the
fundamentals that you're talking about,
Tony, that remain strong with Nvidia.
But how do you factor and price things
in like what we're talking about in
China and on the US side too, looking at
taking revenue from their Chinese sales,
how does that impact where you think the
fair value of Nvidia is at this moment?
>> Yeah. Well, I think here after uh what
we've seen since April, I mean, we're
we're definitely at a different
valuation range and sentiment is very
positive after this big run. And so, and
we saw a really good earning season and
some of that has been baked in Nvidia
stock. I think that um here like people
will be looking for 26 sustainability. I
think that 25 already people have have
you know assumed that's going to be
good. And so to me like it's going to be
equation of demand. um you know how do
we think about new customers coming into
the Nvidia backlog such as you know
sovereign as well as the existing
clusters that are being built out and
then also supply in terms of how well
they're ramping and you know do we have
power constraints potentially so I think
that's what's going to be um on top of
the market's mind coming for going in
the next few weeks
>> and Tony looking further out we're
focused more on assessing the amount of
government intervention we've had and
maybe will have in the months to come
Tony how are you thinking about what's
happening with Intel and what it could
mean for other companies. One
conversation we've had this week is that
if we do take an equity stake in Intel
and they do build out domestic foundry
capacity, will other companies be pushed
to use it in a way that might not be
good for their bottom line?
>> Yeah. To me, I think that the tech
trends and the competitive advantages of
the tech companies matter the most. I
think the government um assistance and
help that that obviously is is
beneficial but at the end of the day
like I think it's on Intel to um you
know improve their product roadmap uh
improve their foundry operations their
manufacturing and you know historically
it hasn't been a capital issue um and so
to me it's more about the technology and
focusing on what they're really good at
um rather than perhaps like a government
the government taking a stake. Uh to me
the tech trends are what's most
important and how well you're
positioned.
>> Tony, thanks for joining us. Hopefully
we can catch up again next week once we
see the numbers. Tony Wong there at Tro
Bryce, a portfolio manager which holds
Nvidia. Just a final word on these
developments this week. Just in 30
seconds, how have you thought about
these things? The prospect of taking
maybe stakes in companies like Intel
>> for whom? Uh for the government. Well, I
mean look, uh the foundry needs to be
revived and uh from that perspective uh
there is no shortcut. Even if government
infuses uh you know multi-billion
dollars, it's not going to fix the
foundry business. So from that
perspective, it's going to take time no
matter what. And
>> there's nothing easy about this. Mandy,
it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Up next on this
program, we're just what 95 minutes
away. Bruce Kasman of JP Morgan joins us
to look ahead to Chairman Powell in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Plus, Yhierra is
going to have some morning movers for
you. And another check on the retail
space. BJ's is down by 2.3%. We've got a
bounce back in this equity market. We're
up by 210 of 1% following five days of
losses on the S&P 500. Can we avoid day
six? The fate of this market today
seemingly in the hands of one man,
Chairman Pal in Jackson Hole from New
York this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
The opening bell is about 60 minutes
away. Equities doing okay. We're up by
210 of 1% on the S&P 500. We're all
waiting for the same thing. Chairman Pal
in 90 minutes in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
Remember a few years ago, 8 minute
speech pain pain and basically closed
things out and moved on and they hiked
interest rates aggressively. It was that
year. It was that time. This is a
different time. Things are much more
finely balanced. And Danny, for that
reason, I imagine this one goes longer
than 8 minutes. You've got to do a
framework review, a review of the labor
market, inflation, where we are. Maybe a
reflection on your term as chairman pow.
I don't know. But you can see this one
taking longer than it did a few years
back.
>> And maybe he doesn't want to be clear
either. Maybe he doesn't want to be
clear in saying it's pain or the time to
adjust has come now. Maybe instead what
we get is something that's highly
technical, very reflective, but one that
doesn't rock the boat too much because
he understands the political pressures
of the moment and doesn't want to
exacerbate it.
>> We're all waiting for the same thing.
The team's going to have special
coverage on the ground for you. Lisa
alongside TK together with Mike McKe to
kick things off in about half an hour's
time. As we count you down to the
opening bell, let's get you some morning
moves and cross over to Yahara for more.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with the discount
retailer Ross store. Shares are up 3.4%
4% after the company projected stronger
sales ahead with executives saying that
inflation will drive more shoppers to
its off-pric racks. The retailer saying
store sales could rise as much as 3% in
the next two quarters, topping Wall
Street expectations. That mirrors the
strength we saw over at TJ Maxx,
underscoring the trend that consumers
are spending, but they're being very
value conscious. And sticking with that
value trend, we have BJ's Wholesale
Club. Shares are falling 2%. Shares were
higher earlier today, but now investors
are digesting what looks to be a mixed
earnings report. While it did raise its
fullear profit outlook, and the CEO
struck an optimistic tone about the back
half, investors seemingly focused on
that sales miss it saw in the second
quarter. And we end on the newly merged
Paramount Sky Dance. Shares are falling
4/10en of 1%. It's a small move, but it
comes after yesterday's huge gains. This
stock popped 14% as it becomes the
latest meme stock of the summer. As for
why, well, the frenzy traces back to
excitement around Paramount's UFC
broadcasting deal. That news lit up Wall
Street bets, and it looks like traders
are continuing to pile in, though it
looks like they are taking some profits
today. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 15 minutes time. Let's turn back
to our top story. Counting you down to
Fed Chair J Pal's highly anticipated
Jackson Hole keynote speech. Blindberg's
Mike McKe is on the ground with more.
Mike McKe, do you imagine this one might
take longer than the eight minutes from
a few years ago?
I think it will. And I I don't think
we're going to hear about pain this
time. But let me ask you a question
here. What happens if we revert to the
mean with jobs at the beginning of
September? and we get a reasonable jobs
number and maybe even last month revised
up a little bit. Uh then what is the Fed
going to do? Are they going to cut
rates? So, as you were saying just
before you went to break, uh the fate of
Wall Street today hangs in the balance
as we wait to hear from what the
chairman says. He is likely to want to
get Wall Street to pull back a little
bit from essentially pricing in a rate
cut because still anything could happen.
It's not easy to do though. Mike, is
that your sense of things that they need
to reintroduce some two-way risk here
because so much hinges on payrolls on
the 5th and inflation on the 11th?
Well, they would like to do that. Now,
of course, the payrolls numbers and the
CPI numbers could introduce that risk as
well. likely will move the futures
markets. But right now, you've got uh
not only the president pushing on the
Fed, but you've got the markets pushing
on the Fed because they all want to see
lower rates, even if they're not
justified by the economy. What we've
seen so far is members of the open
market committee saying we're open to
the idea of a rate cut if the data
justify it. But the Wall Street people
aren't hearing the if the data justify
it part.
>> Mike McKe, we're always skipping a
story. You know that. Mike McKe on the
ground in Jackson Hall, Wyoming. Looking
forward to your coverage, sir. Kicks off
in about 26 minutes time. Let's stick
with the Fed. Bruce Casman of JP Morgan
writing the following. Elevated
inflation suggests that the removal of
downside growth risks would make it
unlikely that the Fed will deliver the
substantial easing expected through the
end of next year. Bruce joins us now for
more. Bruce, it's been too long, my
friend. Welcome to the program. July
30th was the last time we heard from
Chairman Powell. It was in the news
conference in Washington, DC. How dated
do you think those views are?
>> Uh, it's clearly dated because we've had
important information both on growth
with the weak labor report and also on
inflation. However, I think it's
important to look at what we got from
that meeting both in terms of PAL's
description of the labor market as solid
as well as the committee minutes that
showed uh that a majority of members
still thought inflation risks were more
important uh than growth risk at that
time. So, we're starting with a
committee that I think has a somewhat uh
hawkish bias around easing. I don't
think from what you've heard so far from
members that there's a consensus to
ease. And I think whatever we get from
Pal today, he clearly can't tell us what
the September meeting is going to do.
Having said that, I do think the um weak
labor market report is important. It
does send a stall speed signal. I think
the Fed traditionally has an asymmetric
bias to being sensitive to recession
risk and I think he is going to tilt
somewhat here in the direction of moving
away from his description of the labor
market as solid to tell us that the door
is open for an easing that hasn't been
decided at the September meeting. So,
Bruce, he opens the door, but to what
degree do you think he would introduce
that two-way risk, that two-sided risk,
and try to maybe coax the market away
from leaning as heavily as it is now to
a rate cut in September?
>> I think right now the market has decided
that there's almost certainly going to
be a rate cut. I think by opening the
door, but not saying we're going to walk
through it, that does reflect the
two-sided risk. So, this is not a chair
that's going to do what he did last year
and basically promise a rate cut at the
September uh meeting. But I think he has
to reflect the rising risk. He has to
reflect the shift in his own thinking.
He has to tell us that September is a
live meeting. If he does that, I think
the market will pretty much stay where
it is on the September call. Bruce, if
we also get some discussion about the
framework work, which we are expecting
to, and you hear Powell talk about
turning away from flexible average
inflation targeting, if he sort of
emphasized that, is there any signal in
that alone or is that more just details
that matter not for near-term policy,
but policy down the road?
>> I think the reality is the flexible
inflation targeting regime never really
took off. Uh, and I think there are some
problems with the way it was described
in the last framework review. I think
pal will basically tell us we're moving
back, but I don't think it has any
implications for how the Fed is going to
set policy, not in September and and not
going forward from there. It'll be
interesting color, but not impactful.
>> Bruce, their understanding of the labor
market will be impactful. I want your
understanding of the labor market first
and then we can talk about whether
there's any daylight between how you
think the Fed reads things. What do you
think is going on here? So, we've
obviously had a step down in payrolls
growth and let's just run with the
numbers we've got so far because they
might change. I've got no idea and I
imagine you don't either, but let's just
run with these numbers. We've seen a
step down in payrolls growth. Bruce, do
you put more emphasis on the demand side
or supply side, a cyclical turn or a
structural shift?
>> Oh, I think labor demand is the key
issue here. And I think in an economy
that has slowed sharply in the first
half of the year, what we're also seeing
is a fairly substantial downshift in the
breadth and the magnitude of labor
demand, I I am concerned that when we
see private payroll slow to the pace
we've seen in the last few months, that
that's a warning signal. I call it a
stall speed alert. But at the same time,
we haven't seen businesses start to
retrench. There's nothing suggesting
layoffs have picked up. And there's
also, I think importantly, no signs that
the slowing in labor demand has really
hit labor income as wages have picked up
somewhat in the last few months and
hours have held up. So, we have an
economy that has downshifted. It's
sending a risk signal, but it's not by
any means breaking. And of course, we do
have the flip side on inflation to worry
about. I think you have to look at the
Fed as responding to these
asymmetrically. The recession risk when
it starts to pick up becomes a dominant
factor in their thinking. And as I said,
I think it's enough to get you a couple
of eases, maybe three. It's not enough
to get you the 130 basis points or so
the market's pricing in over the next 18
months. Bruce, Governor Wallace in your
camp without a doubt, but as you pointed
out, the counterpoint to all of this is
that measures of slack have been quite
stable and you pointed to wages. Wages
are still okay. So you might get a few
people on the committee who say this is
more about labor supply and that we've
got a real risk here that we might get
pushed in one direction when perhaps we
should be looking in the other. Bruce,
how do you think that debate is going to
play out on the committee in September?
>> You could clearly see that in the
minutes this week and I I am very much
in Waller's camp and being concerned
about labor demand, but I'm not with him
and I think most of the committee is not
with him in the way he's reading the
inflation data. And that's the tough
part of this call because there is
inflation pressure building. I don't
think underlying signals are telling us
US core inflation is below 3% at this
point. If it wasn't for a risk issue, I
don't think the Fed would have a case
for easing. I do think there's a
legitimate risk issue and I do think
it's appropriate to respond to that with
modest easing as we go through the next
uh two or three meetings.
>> Bruce, how important is it where we've
come from? The fact that this has been 4
and 1/2 years of inflation consistently
above target, the fact that you have
scars of 2022 still really fresh. Does
that in itself push back against some of
the Waller thinking that he might be
right in normal times, but this time
around the risk of inflation is
different?
>> I think that's right. And I think if we
were sitting in a world where you didn't
feel there was a heightened risk of a
labor market break, you're not supposed
to be easing even as you see growth
having slowed. But we do know that
recessions are quite disruptive. We kn
do know they're they're quite uh
disinflationary. We also can see that so
far the Fed hasn't lost its anchor on
the longer end on inflation credibility.
So I think in the balancing act here, if
you are concerned about inflation uh
recession risk, you're supposed to
respond to it. If I could put another
point in here, I do think the Fed is
politically vulnerable as an institution
here. And I think the risk that they
fail to respond to a downturn taking
hold here would create a pretty
substantial backlash, which I think does
weigh on their minds in terms of how
they're going to think about things as
they go into the September meeting.
>> Bruce, just build on that. vulnerable as
an institution. What does that really
mean?
>> Well, I think what it means is if you
listen to Steven Moran, if you listen to
Bessant, there's talk about the Fed
being re-evaluated as an institution.
This is not about who leads the Fed.
This is not about firing members of the
uh of the board. This is about do we
have a re-evaluation of the Federal
Reserve Act at some point here? Is the
Fed as an institution going to be
changed by this administration? They're
certainly pointing in that direction.
And I think the more the Fed falls
behind the curve, the more the Fed puts
itself in a position where it's not
sensitive to growth risks that are
realized, the more those risks increase.
The Fed understands that the Fed is a
political institution and I think it
accommodates when it is under pressure.
It's a marginal issue. I think it won't
make the Fed ease when there's not a
good case for it, but when decisions are
marginal, I think it leans in the dovish
direction. And I think that's exactly
where we're going to sit at the
September meeting. It's
>> fantastic insight, Bruce. Appreciate
your take. An original take there from
Bruce Casman of JP Morgan. Truly
thoughtful on where he thinks the Fed is
at right now. From a riskmanagement p
perspective. From Bruce's perspective,
in Bruce's mind, it makes sense to cut
interest rates soon. But the rate
cutting cycle that this market has
priced over the next year or so,
different story.
>> I do think that's a really salient
argument. I mean, Waller makes a lot of
sense when he speaks. It's not like this
is a far out argument saying that they
should be cutting. So the idea that they
need to offer up some rate cuts because
the other consequence of that of not
tackling growth would be more changes to
the institution is an interesting one.
But yes, again to your point, it still
doesn't mean market pricing is right.
>> Chairman Pal, 1 hour 18 minutes away.
The coverage from Jackson Hole, Wyoming
starts at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time with
the team on the ground looking forward
to it. Equity futures positive by two
ten of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahira Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. FBI agents raided former Trump
National Security Adviser John Bolton's
Maryland home this morning. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the raid
involves classified documents. Bolton
was previously alleged to have included
classified information in a book he
released several years ago. Bolton and
the FBI have declined to comment.
Meanwhile, Fed President Austin Goulsby
says one data point in the last
inflation report was dangerous. In an
interview with Bloomberg television, he
said he hopes the services inflation
data quote shooting up was a blip.
Goldsby adding that the Fed's September
policy gathering gathering feels like a
live meeting, no doubt. And ESPN and
Major League Baseball are reportedly
close to an agreement that would allow
the network to carry MLB TV and the
rights to all out of market baseball
games. That's according to The Athletic.
The deal would give ESPN the ability to
offer MLB TV to fans as part of the
network's newly launched direct to
consumer streaming service. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Those of you who
watch this program regularly might be
familiar with this round. My biggest
frustration about sport is you don't
know where to find it. And that's the
problem I have with Premier League
football. It disappears onto Peacock,
then comes back onto normal TVs like USA
or something like that, one of those
channels. I can never find the games
that I want to watch. I don't know where
they are.
>> Okay. the the worst and I feel like this
is really fitting right now cuz it's the
US Open is tennis. Tennis is so
confusing. So many different channels.
There the tennis channel. I need to ask
for a raise literally just to afford to
watch all the tennis.
>> Same with the golf. Some of it's on
ESPN. Other bits of it are on the golf
channel.
>> Bad for business, right? They don't get
as many eyeballs.
>> 2 p.m. on the weekend switches to a
different channel.
>> I was so sad to have to, you know,
>> just sitting there trying to figure it
out.
>> 2 p.m. on a weekend just channel surf
for golf.
>> Reduce the friction. That's all I asked
for. Just reduce the friction. Let's set
you up for the day ahead. That's coming
up next. We'll catch up with Jean Ban of
Black Rockck as we count you down to
Chairman Pal speech.
[Music]
We want the Fed to react before we see a
big problem. What they need to be right
now is just incredibly data driven. And
that's going to mean looking at lots of
sources of data. Remember, they have a
dual mandate. They do want to keep
employment at full employment, but
they've also got to try to get that
inflation back to their target of 2%.
That's the big objective for the Federal
Reserve and Chairman Pal. We're counting
you down to a big speech a little bit
later on this morning. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 positive by 210 of 1% on the
NASDAQ higher by 0.15%.
That speech 1 hour and 11 minutes away.
Jean Bavan of Black Rockck with this to
say. We would still lean against the
market pricing of multiple Fed rate cuts
over the next year. John is with us in
the studio. Morning John.
>> Good morning.
>> Why would you push back? Well, I I think
the situation is very murky uh and it
remains very much so. Yes, the uh peril
number that came out, the last one was
uh was an important one and we are
paying close attention. I think it leans
to uh more even more of an easing bias,
but the inflation story is far from
clear. Uh we have many more prints. I
don't think it's even the next two. I
mean, it's the next many uh before we
get a real handle on uh that situation.
And you know, you get inflation and
growth going in the opposite direction.
um how they're going to balance that is
um is far from clear for me.
>> How do you put it in a speech in one
hour's time?
>> I think uh I think you're careful to
guide the market too much especially
since the where the market is. I think
by uh you don't want to log this in. I
don't think so. Uh I think you um I
think there's a big story in inflation
that needs to be spelled out. Um the
labor market is very very unusual
dynamic. It's I think it's very
interesting that the topic of the the
conference is really about you know
employment, labor market, uh
demographics which are big structural
forces that are making the labor market
very murky. Um and I think you you
emphasize that and I think um I think
President Goulsby is right that the
service story on inflation is really uh
puzzling and I think you know it's
important to remember that uh going into
this year uh if you if we hadn't had
this kind of surprise weakness in uh
service inflation we would be more to
like 3% inflation right now. So, uh, and
there's not a real explanation for this
weakness in, uh, service inflation, uh,
because it doesn't really line up with
the labor market and wage dynamic that
we're seeing. So, um, so I think the
jury is very much out on inflation. Um,
and unless you get convinced that
recession risk is really real, then, um,
it's going to be tough to deliver those
cuts.
>> So, is this then a Powell that
introduces two-way risk into this market
in his speech today?
>> Yeah, I think this is this is very hard
to do. uh and uh but I think by
emphasizing some of the inflation story
that is not resolved uh and uh recession
it's one data point on the payroll right
I mean we could get like you know a
pretty strong one next one we believe
that uh you know 60 40 to 60,000 job is
kind of what the we need to keep
inflation stable uh so uh that's easy to
achieve in the next uh payroll numbers
and that would not be extreme recession
so I don't know making those millions of
points I think uh pushes a bit against
100% uh priced and cut but
>> and and look you're you're not the only
one to say this. I think a lot of people
have come around this table this week
have said that and before
>> right maybe for the past month two
months we can go back further saying
that they're stuck between a hard place.
It's not a market that's saying that
though Jean. So how vulnerable are we at
this moment to having a Fed that will
push back and a pow that will push back
against current market pricing? I think
I think this is an environment that is
uh very uh as a result very volatile. We
keep telling clients and uh you know
investors that um this is an environment
where uh we have more scenarios that are
possible in the table than usual. Uh you
cannot bank on one uh being 100% things
are not binary. Uh and as a result we
think that creates a lot of alpha or uh
you know investment opportunities. um
the fact that it's priced 100% and there
might be room for some surprise will
create some you know near-term
opportunities and I think um that
creates a pretty interesting trading
environment um for for investors.
>> What you like right now?
>> We we uh we like uh uh risk in general
because I mean no matter what happens
with the the the communication today and
even if there was like a surprise how
Kishness coming out and the market were
to react adversely, we think there's
pretty strong underneath uh you know
support for risk assets. So we like we
like equities, we like US equities in
particular, uh we would be um you know a
bit more careful on on on the rate side
of things and fixed income for like what
we're just discussing here. Um and uh in
the context where the dollar uh has been
you know uh behaving the way it has this
year uh there are pockets of interest in
emerging markets that continues to be to
be there for us and AI uh is is
certainly something that despite the
ongoing debate and so on um you know we
think it's a pretty powerful force.
>> Let's just sit on that. You've talked
about this as a team the lack of macro
anchors right now to focus on other
things. Can you build out that just a
little bit more? Yeah, I think you know
um there's a the the the environment
since 2020. It's ironic they're going to
be reviewing their framework now um five
years and that five years was exactly
for us uh where we we move to a
completely different regime. It used to
be all about demand and risk of
inflation uh under shooting and targets.
Now we think it's all shaped by supply.
It's a transformation. It's a real
transformation. Uh there's a lot of mega
forces at play. AI is one in particular.
And that means that uh you know where
we're going to be ending up in um 2 3 5
years I think is a lot more unclear than
at any point in the 40 years prior to
2020. Uh are we going to get 3% growth?
Are we going to get like on a sustained
basis which would be like a uh you know
a speed up or will we be in a 1% world?
These are very different world. Very
likely that we could be in both but we
don't we just don't know. So we need to
be ready uh for that. And then inflation
we are debating the near term but um we
have big deficits. we have uh you know
big debts uh how this is going to play
out how these uh trade-off will be
navigated over the next five years is
very unclear and as a result I think
it's very difficult to u build out a
scenario 5 years out for strategic asset
allocation and say this is like a
reasonable basis where I can navigate
around uh instead I think you need to be
a lot more tactical uh and instead of
looking at these macro anchor I think we
want to look to these mega force anchor
and AI uh there are many macro scenarios
but we think AI will power through many
of them and as a result is better way to
kind of shape portfolios
>> which is why I think so many of these
names have been bit up so aggressively
precisely for that reason I think people
feel more comfortable with that than
they do with these other issues
>> because everything else is unknown the
politics of the moment the deficits the
economy what is known is that these
hyperscalers are spending a lot of money
on AI and it's showing no signs of
slowing down
>> John it's good to see you it always is
thank you sir thank you
>> Jean Bavan of Black Rockck there
breaking down these financial markets
both in equities and in rates and the
kind of anchors you need right now to
get comfortable in financial markets
worldwide. We're counting you down to
the big one. That speech in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, 1 hour and 5 minutes
away. The team on the ground in Jackson
Hole. TK Brammo, Mike McKe bringing you
special coverage in about 5 minutes
time. The speech itself at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time. Heading into it, equity
futures positive by 210 of 1% on the S&P
500 following 5 days of losses on the
benchmark state side. In the bond
market, the 2-year at 379, the 30-year
at about 490. After all this is said and
done, we'll catch up with you on Monday.
We'll speak to Bob Elliot of Unlimited,
Steve Rashido of Missou, Dan Skellyy of
Morgan Stanley, Liz Young Thomas of SoFi
from New York City. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]